SHABBAT MORNING ABODAH (SERVICE)
Shabbath shalom, my brothers and sisters!


Welcome to the Hikal (the Temple) of Yahweh and the Shabbat Celebration.


It is said in Bereshit, otherwise {Genesis 2:1-3}


Normal Thus, the shamayim {the heavens} and the arets {the earth} were completed, and all their array.
And in the seventh yom {day} יהוה completed His work which He had done, and He rested on the seventh yom from all His work which He had made. And יהוה baruk {blessed} the seventh yom and set it apart, because on it, He rested from all His work which יהוה in creating had made.


Shemoth {Exodus 31:12-15}


And יהוה spoke to Moshe, saying, And you, speak to the children of Yisra’Yah, saying, ‘My Shabbats you are to guard, by all means, for it is a sign between Me and you throughout your generations, to know that I, יהוה, am setting you apart. ‘And you shall guard the Shabbath, for it is set-apart to you. Everyone who profanes it shall certainly be put to death, for anyone who does work on it, that being shall be cut off from among his people. ‘Six yomim {days} work is done, and on the seventh is a Shabbat of rest, set-apart to יהוה. Everyone doing work on the Shabbat yom shall certainly be put to death.
 
The National Anthem: Yah’maica (Jamaica)         


The National Anthem: Yisra’Yah (Israel)                                                                       
        
The Shima:  


SHIMA YISRA’YAH, YAHWEH SHADDAY, YAHWEH ECHAD BARUCKH SHEM KH’VOD MAL’CHU-TO LO-LAM VA-ED 


Leader: Debarim {Deut 6:4-9}


“Hear, O Yisra’Yah: יהוה All-Mighty, יהוה is one! “And you shall love יהוה your All-Mighty with all your heart, and with all your being, and with all your might. “And these Words which I am commanding you hayom {today} shall be in your heart, And you shall impress them upon your children, and shall speak of them when you sit in your house, and when you walk by the way, and when you lie down, and when you rise up, and shall bind them as a sign on your hand, and they shall be as frontlets between your eyes.
“And you shall write them on the doorposts of your house and on your gates.


Debarim {Deut 11:13-21}


‘And it shall be that if you diligently obey My commands which I command you hayom {today}, to love יהוה your Ab-ba and to serve Him with all your heart and with all your being, Then I shall give you the rain for your land in its season, the early rain and the latter rain, and you shall gather in your grain, and your new wine, and your oil. ‘And I shall give grass in your fields for your livestock, and you shall eat and be satisfied. ‘Guard yourselves, lest your heart be deceived, and you turn aside and serve other mighty ones and bow down to them. ‘Then the displeasure of יהוה shall burn against you, and He shall shut up the shamayim {heaven}, and there be no rain, and the lands not give its increase. And you shall perish quickly from the tov {good} land which יהוה is giving you. ‘And you shall lay up these words of Mine in your heart and in your being, and shall bind them as a sign on your hand, and they shall be as frontlets between your eyes. ‘And you shall teach them to your children, speaking of them when you sit in your house, and when you walk by the way, and when you lie down, and when you rise up. And shall write them on the doorposts of your house and on your gates, So that your Chai {life} and the Chai {life} of your children are increased on the soil of which יהוה swore to your fathers to give them, as the yomim {days} of the shamayim {heavens} on the arets {earth}.


Bemidbar {Num 15:37-41}


And יהוה spoke to Moshe, {Moses} saying,


“Speak to the children of Yisra’Yah, and you shall say to them to make tzitzit {fringes} on the corners of their garments throughout their generations, and to put a blue cord in the tzitzit of the corners.
“And it shall be to you for a tzitzit, and you shall see it, and shall remember all the commands of יהוה and shall do them, and not search after your own heart and your own eyes after which you went whoring,
So that you remember, and shall do all My commands, and be set-apart unto your Ab-ba. “I am יהוה Your Ab-ba, who brought you out of the land of Mitsrayim, to be your Ab-ba. I am יהוה Your Ab-ba.”                                                                                                                             


Opening Berakah (Blessing)


Leader: BA-RUKH A-TAH YAHWEH SHADDAY HAME-VORACH BA-RUCH YAHWEH HAME VORACH LE-GNO-LAM VAED
                                                                                 
Congregation: Praised are You, Yahweh All-Mighty, Sovereign of the universe, who forms light and creates darkness, who makes peace and creates all things. 


Leader: BA-RUKH A-TAH YAHWEH SHADDAY ME-KADEISH HA-SHA-BAT VE’SHABAT KAD’SHKHA A’AHAVAH UV’RETZON HIN’CHOL’TONU                                                                                                                                 
Congregation: Praised are You Yahweh All-Mighty, who set-apart Shabbath and has willingly and lovingly given us your sacred Shabbath for an inheritance.
                                                                                                                                                               
Opening Prayer


Leader: The breath of every living being shall baruk Your Name, O Yahweh All-Mighty, and the Ruach of all flesh shall continually honour and exult. Your memorial, O our King, for You are from everlasting to everlasting. You Are The All-Mighty; and besides You, we have neither king, redeemer nor saviour to redeem, deliver, answer and show compassion on us in all times of trouble and distress. We have no king to aid and support us but You.


Congregation: Yahweh of the first and of the last, Creator of all creatures, Father of all generations, Who is exulted with all manner of praise; Who guides His world with tenderness and His creatures with compassion. And the All-Mighty is ever awake, He slumbers not, and He sleeps not, but it is You Who rise us who sleep, revive the dead, heal the sick, open the eyes of the blind, and raise those who are bowed down. You make the dumb to speak, and reveal the hidden things; and therefore unto You alone do we render adoration Hallelu-Yah!


Tehillim {Psalm: 23} we recite together
1. Yahweh, You are my shepherd; I shall not want.
2. You make me to lie down in green pastures: You lead me beside the still waters.
3. You restore my soul: You lead me in the paths of righteousness for Your namesake.
4. Yea, though I walk through the valley of the shadow of death, I will fear no evil: for You are with me; Your rod and Your staff they comfort me.
5. You prepare a table before me in the presence of mine enemies: You anointed my head with oil; my cup runs over.
6. Surely tov and honour shall follow me all the yomim of my life: and I will dwell in Your house, Yahweh forever.


Team Song: Shabbath shalom
   
Praise and Worship Songs: 


Berakah and the singing of Tehillim:
  
Leader: Ba-rukh a-tah Yahweh shadday me-lekh ha-o-lam, a-sher  qid'sha-nu b'mitz'vo-tav, v'tzi-va nu shar et Te-hi-llim
                           
Congregation: Praise are You, Yahweh All-Mighty, Sovereign of the universe, who has set-apart us by His Word, and instructed us to sing Tehillim.


The Tehillim: Prayer and meditation (We read alternately)
Tehillim 90
1.  יהוה, You have been our refuge in all generations.
2. Before the mountains were born, or You had brought forth the arets {earth} and the world, even from everlasting to everlasting You are the All-Mighty.
3. You turn man back to dust, and say, “Return, oh children of men.”
4. For a thousand years in Your eyes are like emesh {yesterday} that has past, or like a watch in the Laylah {night}.
5. You have swept them away; they are as a sleep, like grass that springs up in the morning.
6. In the morning it flourishes and springs up, at evening it is cut down and withered.
7. For we have been consumed by Your displeasure, and by Your wrath we are alarmed.
8. You have set our crookednesses before You, our secret sin, in the light of Your face.
9. For all our yomim {days} have passed away in Your wrath, we spend our years like a whisper.
10. The yomim {days} of our lives are seventy years; or if due to strength, eighty years, yet the best of them are but toil and exertion; for it is soon cut off, and we fly away.
11. Who knows the power of Your displeasure? And your wrath, according to the fear of You?
12. Teach us to number our yomim {days}, and let us bring the heart to wisdom.
13. Return, O יהוה! How long? And be sorry for Your servants.
14. Satisfy us in the morning with Your kindness, and let us sing for simchah {joy} all our yomim {days}!
15. Give us simchah {joy} according to the yomim {days} You have afflicted us, the years we have seen evil.
16. Reveal Your work to Your servants, And Your splendour to their children.
17. And let the pleasantness of יהוה our Ab-ba be upon us, and confirm the work of our hands for us; O confirm the work of our hands!


Tehillim 91
1. He who dwells in the secret place of the Most-High, Who abides under the shadow of the All-Mighty,
2. He is saying of יהוה, “My refuge and my stronghold, My Ab-ba, in whom I trust!”
3. For He delivers you from the snare of a trapper, from the destructive pestilence.
4. He covers you with His feathers, and under His wings you take refuge; His truth is a shield and armour.
5. You are not afraid of the dread by laylah {night}, of the arrow that flies by yom {day},
6. Of the pestilence that walks in darkness, of destruction that ravages at tsohar {midday}.
7. A thousand fall at your side, and ten thousand at your right hand; but it does not come near you.
8. Only with your eyes you look on, and see the reward of the wrong ones.
9. Because you have made יהוה – My refuge, the Most-High – your dwelling place,
10. No evil befalls you, and a plague does not come near your tent;
11. For He commands His messengers concerning you, to guard you in all your ways.
12. They bear you up in their hands, lest you dash your foot against a stone.
13. You tread upon lion and cobra, Young lion and serpent you trample under foot.
14. “Because he cleaves to Me in love, Therefore I deliver him; I set him on high, because he has known My name.
15. “When he calls on Me, I answer him; I am with him in distress; I deliver him and esteem him.
16. “With long life I satisfy him, and show him My deliverance.”


Tehillim 92
1. It is tov {good}to give thanks to יהוה, and to sing praises to Your name, O Most High;
2. To declare Your kindness in the morning, and Your trustworthiness each Laylah {night},
3. On ten strings, and on the harp, to the sounding chords of the lyre.
4. For You have made me rejoice with Your work, O יהוה, I shout for simchah {joy} at the works of Your hands.
5. O יהוה, how great are Your works! Your thoughts are very deep! 
6. A senseless man does not know, and a fool does not understand this.
7. When the wrong springs up like grass, and all the workers of wickedness blossom, it is for them to be destroyed forever.
8. But You, יהוה, are on high forever.
9. For look, Your enemies, O יהוה, For look, Your enemies do perish; All the workers of wickedness are scattered.
10. But You lift my horn like a wild ox; I have been anointed with fresh oil.
11. And my eye looks upon my enemies; My ears hear the evildoers Who rise up against me.
12. The righteous one flourishes like a palm tree, He grows like a cedar in Lebanon.
13. Those who are planted in the House of יהוה flourish in the courts of our Ab-ba.
14. They still bear fruit in old age; they are fresh and green,
15. To declare that יהוה is straight, my Rock, and in Him is no unrighteousness.


Tehillim 93
1. יהוה shall reign, He shall put on excellency; יהוה shall put on strength; He shall gird Himself. Indeed, the world is established, immovable. 
2. Your throne is established from of old; You are from everlasting.
3. Rivers shall lift up, O יהוה, Rivers shall lift up their voice; Rivers lift up their breakers.
4. יהוה on high is mightier than the noise of many   waters, the mighty breakers of the sea.
5. Your witnesses have been very trustworthy. Set-apartness befits Your house, O יהוה, forever.


Tehillim 94
1. O יהוה, Ab-ba of vengeance; O Ab-ba of vengeance, shine forth!
2. Raise Yourself up, O Judge of the arets {earth}; Render punishment to the proud.
3. יהוה, how long are the wrong, how long are the wrong going to exult? 
4. They pour forth words, they speak arrogantly; All the workers of wickedness boast in themselves.
5. They crush Your people, O יהוה, and they afflict Your inheritance.
6. They slay the widow and the stranger, and murder the fatherless.
7. Yet they say, “Yah does not see, and the All-Mighty of Ya‛aqoḇ pays no heed.”
8. Take heed, you senseless among the people; and you fools, when would you become wise?
9. He who planted the ear, does He not hear? He who formed the eye, does He not see?
10. He who disciplines the nations, does He not reprove – the One teaching man knowledge?
11. יהוה , knows the thoughts of man, that they are but a breath.
12. Baruk {praise} is the man You discipline, O Yah, and instruct out of Your Torah,
13. To give him rest from the yomim {the days} of evil, until the pit is dug for the wrong.
14. For יהוה does not leave His people, nor does He forsake His inheritance.
15. For right-ruling returns man to righteousness, and all the upright in heart follow it.
16. Who would rise up for me against evildoers? Who would stand up for me against workers of wickedness?
17. If יהוה had not been my help, My being would soon have settled in silence. 
18. When I said, “My foot has slipped,” Your kindness, O יהוה, supported me.
19. When anxiety was great within me, Your comforts delighted my being.
20. Would a throne of destruction, which devises trouble by decree, be joined with You?
21. They band together against the life of the righteous, and declare innocent blood wrong.
22. But יהוה is my defence, And my Abba the rock of my refuge,
23. And brings back on them their own wickedness, and cuts them off in their own wrong doing; יהוה our Ab-ba does cut them off.


Tehillim 95
1. Come, let us sing to יהוה! Let us raise a shout to the Rock of our deliverance.
2. Let us come before His face with Thanksgiving; let us raise a shout to Him in song.
3. For יהוה is a great Ab-ba, and a great Sovereign above all mighty ones.
4. In whose hands are the depths of the earth; the mountain peaks are His also.
5. His is the sea, for He made it; and His hands formed the dry land.
6. Come, let us bow down and bend low, let us kneel before יהוה our Maker.
7. For Yahweh is our Ab-ba, and we are the people of His pasture, and the sheep of His hand. Hayom {today}, if you would hear His voice:
8. “Do not harden your hearts as in Meriḇah, and as in the yom {day} of Massah in the wilderness,
9. “When your fathers tried Me, have proved Me, though they saw My work.
10. “For forty years I was grieved with that generation, and said, ‘they are a people who go astray in their hearts, and they do not know My ways.’
11. “As I swore in My wrath, ‘If they enter into My rest.


Tehillim 96
1. Sing to יהוה a new song, Sing to יהוה, all the arets {the earth}!
2. Sing to יהוה, barak His Name, proclaim His deliverance from yom to yom.
3. Declare His esteem among the nations, His wonders among all peoples.
4. For great is יהוה and greatly to be praised, He is to be feared above all mighty ones.
5. For all the mighty ones of the peoples are matters of naught, but יהוה made the shamayim {the heavens}.
6. Excellency and splendour are before Him, strength and comeliness are in His set-apart place.
7. Ascribe to יהוה, O clans of the peoples, ascribe to יהוה esteem and strength.
8. Ascribe to יהוה the esteem of His name; bring an offering, and come into His courts.
9. Bow yourselves to יהוה, in the splendour of set-apartness! Tremble before Him, all the arets {the earth}.
10. Say among nations, יהוה shall reign. The world also is established, immovable. He judges the peoples in straightness.” 
11. Let the shamayim {the heavens} rejoice, and let the arets {the earth} be glad; let the sea roar, and all that fills it;
12. Let the field exult, and all that is in it. Let all the trees of the forest then shout for simchah {joy},
13. At the presence of יהוה for or He shall come, for He shall come to judge the arets.                                                                                                                                        He judges the world in righteousness and the peoples with His truth.


Tehillim Berakah (After)


Leader: Ba-rukh a-tah Yahweh Ab-ba me-lekh ha-o-lam, a-sher qid'sha-nu b'mitz'vo-tav, v'tzi-va nu shar et Te-hi-llim.


Congregation: Praised are You, Yahweh our Father, Sovereign of the universe, who has set-part us by His word, and instructed us to sing Tehillim.


Praise and Worship Song:
                                                                                                    
Berakah and reading of the Mishle: words of wisdom (and after)  
                                                                                              
Leader: Barukh atah Yahweh Ab-ba melekh ha-o-lam, asher bachar binvi-im tovim, Va-rat-zah   va’div’rei-hemday Ha-nee-ma-rim bee-met.


Congregation: Praise are you, Yahweh our Father, Sovereign of the universe, who selected tov (good) prophets, delighting in their words which were spoken truthfully.


A Song:
                                                                                                                                                               
Berakah and reading of the Apocrypha: The inspired Teachings of Yahweh 
 (and after)
Leader: Barukh atah Yahweh Ab-ba melekh ha-o-lam, asher bachar binvi-im tovim, Va-rat-zah   va’div’rei-hemday Ha-nee-ma-rim bee-met.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    Congregation: Praise are you, Yahweh our Father, Sovereign of the universe who selected tov (good) prophets, delighting in their words which were spoken truthfully.
                                                                                                                               
Theme Song: Hine’ma-tov: Congregation


Berakah and Reading of the Ten Words: 


Leader: Barukh atah Yahweh Ab-ba melekh ha-o-lam, asher bachar banu mikhal ha-a-mim v'natan lanu et Torato Barukh atah Yahweh, no-tein ha-Torah.


Congregation: Praised are you, Yahweh our Father, Sovereign of the universe, who chose us from all the peoples by giving us Torah. Praised are You, Yahweh, giver of the Torah.


THE TEN WORDS: the written Torah (Laws)


Shemoth (Exodus. 20 : 1 – 17) it reads as follows:
1. And Yahweh spoke all these Words, saying,
2. “I am יהוה your Mighty One, who brought you out of the land of Mitsrayim, out of the house of slavery.
3. “You have no other mighty ones against My face.
4. “You do not make for yourself a carved image, or any likeness of that which is in the shamayim the heaven} above, or which is in the arets {the earth} beneath, or which is in the waters under the arets {the earth}.
5. You do not bow down to them nor serve them. For I, יהוה your Ab-ba am a jealous Ab-ba, visiting the crookedness of the fathers on the children to the third and fourth generations of those who hate Me,
6. But showing kindness to thousands, to those who love Me and guard My commands.
7. “You do not bring the Name of יהוה your Ab-ba to naught, for יהוה does not leave the one unpunished who brings His Name to naught.
8. “Remember the Shabbath yom, {day} to set it apart.
9. “Six yomim {days} you labour, and shall do all your work,
10. But the seventh yom is a Shabbath of יהוה your Ab-ba. You do not do any work – you, nor your son, nor your daughter, nor your male servant, nor your female servant, nor your cattle, nor your stranger who is within your gates.
11. “For in six yomim {days} יהוה made the shamayim {heavens} and the arets {earth}, the sea, and all that is in them, and rested the seventh yom. Therefore, יהוה baruk {bless} the Shabbath yom and set it apart.
12. “Respect your father and your mother, so that your yomim are prolonged upon the soil which יהוה your Abba is giving you.
13. “You do not murder.
14. “You do not commit adultery.
15. “You do not steal.        
16. “You do not bear false witness against your neighbour.
17. “You do not covet your neighbour’s house; you do not covet your neighbours’ wife, nor his male servant, nor his female servant, nor his ox, nor his donkey, or whatever belongs to your neighbour.”


The Welcome Song:


Haftarah and Brit’chadasha Berakah (and after)
         
Leader: Baruch Atah Yahweh shadday melech ha’olam. Asher bachar binvi’im tovim V’ratza v’divreihem hane’emarim be’emet. Baruch Atah Yahweh habocheir baTorah Uv’Mosheh avdo uv’YisraYah amo, Uvin’vi’ei ha’emet vatzadek.


Congregation: We praise You, Yahweh All-Mighty, Sovereign of the universe: You have called faithful prophets to speak words of truth. We praise You, Yahweh, for the revelation of Torah, for Moshe Your servant and Yisra’Yah Your people, and for the prophets of truth and righteousness.


Closing prayer:                                                


Lunch break:
SHABBATH AFTERNOON LESSON (TORAH STUDIES)        
Reading and study of the Torah:


Torah Berakah (Before)


Leader: Bar’chu et Yahweh Ham’vorach Baruch Yahweh Ham’vorach l’olam  va’ed Baruch Atah Yahweh sadday melech  ha’olam  Asher bachar  banu mikol ha’amim V’natan lanu et Torato Baruch Atah Yahweh notein haTorah.


Congregation: Praise the One to whom our praise is due! Praised be the One to whom our praise is due, now and forever! We praise You, Yahweh All-Mighty, Sovereign of the universe: You have called us to Your service by giving us the Torah. We praise You, Yahweh, Giver of the Torah.


Torah Berakah (After)        


Leader:  Baruch Atah Yahweh shadday melech ha’olam Asher natan lanu Torat Emet V’chayei olam nata b’tocheinu Baruch Atah Yahweh notein haTorah.
Congregation: We praise You Yahweh All-Mighty, Sovereign of the universe: You have given us a Torah of truth, implanting within us eternal life. We praise You, Yahweh, giver of the Torah.  


Haftarah Berakah (Before)


Leader: Baruch Atah Yahweh shadday melech ha’olam Asher bachar binvi’im tovim V’ratza v’divreihem hane’emarim be’emet Baruch Atah Yahweh habocheir baTorah Uv’Moshe avdo uv’YisraYah amo, Uvin’vi’ei ha’emet vatzadek.


Congregation: We praise You, Yahweh All-Mighty, Sovereign of the universe: You have called faithful prophets to speak words of truth. We praise You, Yahweh, for the revelation of Torah, for Moshe Your servant and Yisra’Yah Your people, and for the prophets of truth and righteousness.


Haftarah Berakah (After)


Leader: Baruch Atah Yahweh shadday melech ha’olam Tzur kol ha’olamim Tzadik b’chol hadorot, Ha’eil hane’eman ha’omeir v’oseh Ham’dabeir um’kayeim, Shekol d’varav emet vatzadek Al haTorah, v’al ha’avodah, v’al han’vi’im  V’al yom ha’Shabbat hazeh Shenatata lanu Yahweh shadday Lik’dusha v’lin’nucha, l’chavod ul’thif’aret Al hakol, Yahweh shadday Aachnu modem lach um’var’chim otach Yit’barach shim’cha b’fi kol chai Tamid l’olam va’ed Baruch Atah Yahweh, m’kadeish ha’Shabbat.


Congregation: We praise You, Yahweh All-Mighty, Sovereign of the universe, the Rock of all creation, the Righteous One of all generations, the faithful Yahweh whose word is deed, whose every command is just and true. For the Torah, for the privilege of worship, for the prophets, and for this Shabbath yom {day} that You, our Yahweh All-Mighty, have given us to be set-apart and rest, for abundance and honour, we thank and praise You. May Your name be praised forever by every living being. We praise You, Yahweh All-Mighty, for the Shabbat and its set-apart-ness. 
Closing of the Shabbat
The Shima:  


SHIMA YISRA’YAH, YAHWEH SHADDAY, YAHWEH ECHAD BARUCKH SHEM KH’VOD MAL’CHU-TO LO-LAM VA-ED 


Leader: Debarim {Deut 6:4-9}


“Hear, O Yisra’Yah: יהוה All-Mighty, יהוה is one! “And you shall love יהוה your All-Mighty with all your heart, and with all your being, and with all your might. “And these Words which I am commanding you hayom {today} shall be in your heart, And you shall impress them upon your children, and shall speak of them when you sit in your house, and when you walk by the way, and when you lie down, and when you rise up, and shall bind them as a sign on your hand, and they shall be as frontlets between your eyes.
“And you shall write them on the doorposts of your house and on your gates.
Debarim {Deut 11:13-21}


‘And it shall be that if you diligently obey My commands which I command you hayom {today}, to love יהוה your Ab-ba and to serve Him with all your heart and with all your being, Then I shall give you the rain for your land in its season, the early rain and the latter rain, and you shall gather in your grain, and your new wine, and your oil. ‘And I shall give grass in your fields for your livestock, and you shall eat and be satisfied. ‘Guard yourselves, lest your heart be deceived, and you turn aside and serve other mighty ones and bow down to them. ‘Then the displeasure of יהוה shall burn against you, and He shall shut up the shamayim {heaven}, and there be no rain, and the lands not give its increase. And you shall perish quickly from the tov {good} land which יהוה is giving you. ‘And you shall lay up these words of Mine in your heart and in your being, and shall bind them as a sign on your hand, and they shall be as frontlets between your eyes. ‘And you shall teach them to your children, speaking of them when you sit in your house, and when you walk by the way, and when you lie down, and when you rise up. And shall write them on the doorposts of your house and on your gates, So that your Chai {life} and the Chai {life} of your children are increased on the soil of which יהוה swore to your fathers to give them, as the yomim {days} of the shamayim {heavens} on the arets {earth}.


Bemidbar {Num 15:37-41}


And יהוה spoke to Moshe, {Moses} saying,


“Speak to the children of Yisra’Yah, and you shall say to them to make tzitzit {fringes} on the corners of their garments throughout their generations, and to put a blue cord in the tzitzit of the corners.
“And it shall be to you for a tzitzit, and you shall see it, and shall remember all the commands of יהוה and shall do them, and not search after your own heart and your own eyes after which you went whoring,
So that you remember, and shall do all My commands, and be set-apart unto your Ab-ba. “I am יהוה Your Ab-ba, who brought you out of the land of Mitsrayim, to be your Ab-ba. I am יהוה Your Ab-ba.”


Closing Prayer: (Prayer for help against sin)
 
Leader: Yahweh, to You be all Honour and Esteem. I beg that a guard could be placed at my mouth, that my lips could be wisely sealed. It would keep me from making mistakes and prevent me from destroying myself with my own tongue!


Congregation: O Yahweh my Ab-ba and Master of my life, do not leave me at the pity of my own words; don’t let them cause my downfall. I wish I could be whipped for my thoughts, so that wisdom could discipline my mind. I would not want to be spared when I am wrong; I would not want a single sin to be overlooked! Then I would not keep on sinning, making one mistake after another.  I could not fall to my enemies and be humiliated by them.
 
Leader: O Yahweh, my Ab-ba, Master of my life, keep me from being arrogant; protect me from evil desires. Keep me from being overcome by greed or lust! Do not leave me at the pity of these shameless passions, that I may bring honour and esteem to Your name.   


Tehillim (Psalm: 121) recite together
1. I lift up my eyes to the hills; Where does my help come from?
2. My help comes from יהוה, Maker of the shamayim {heavens} and arets {earth}.
3. He does not allow my foot to be moved; He who watches over me does not slumber.
4. See, He who is guarding Yisra’Yah neither slumbers nor sleeps.
5. יהוה is my guard; יהוה is my shade at my right hand.
6. The sun does not strike me by yom {by day}, nor the moon by Laylah (by night).
7. יהוה guards me from all evil; He guards my being.
8. יהוה guards my going out and my coming in now and forever.


HAVDALAH RITUAL (the end of Shabbat)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     
Congregation: Yahweh is my teshuvah {deliverance}, I trust and have no fear; Yahweh is my strength and my song, and has become my Yesha.


Leader: Yahweh will give strength to his people, Yahweh will barak his children with Shalom {Peace}. Shalom to him who is a far off, and to him who is near, says Yahweh.                                                                                                                                                             


Congregation: I will exalt the Torah; I will call upon the name of Yahweh.


Leader: Ba-rukh a- tah Yahweh Ab-ba me-lekh ha-o-lam, bo-rei p’ri ha-ga-fen.


Congregation: Praised are You, Yahweh our Father, Sovereign of the universe, who created the fruit of the vine.


Leader: Ba-rukh a-tah Yahweh Ab-ba me-lekh ha-o-lam, bo-rei mi-nei ve sa-mim.


Congregation: Praised are You, Yahweh our Father, Sovereign of the universe, who created various spices.


Leader: Ba-rukh a-tah Yahweh Ab-ba me-lekh ha-o-lam, bo-rei mo-rei ha-eish.


Congregation: Praised are You, Yahweh our Father, Sovereign of the universe, who created the illumination of the fire.


Leader: Ba-rukh a-tah Yahweh Ab-ba me-lekh ha-o-lam palah ba-yin qadosh chol bay-in or cha-shek ba-yin   yom-shabat  yom-vav a-mal ezer “us” anach-nu palah ba-yin e-meth a-mad he-bel shav agab che-sed to-qeph na-cha-lah tub sha-bu-a amets emun sha-bu-a arukah shalu sha-bu-a bera-kah shalom.  


Congregation: Praised are You, Yahweh our Father, Sovereign of the universe, who separated between the sacred and the profane, between light and darkness, between the seventh yom and the six yomim of labour. Help us too, we pray, to distinguish between that which is real and enduring, and that which is fleeting and vain.  May we value affection and helpfulness more than power and possessions, that the simchah of a tov (good) week, a week of courage and commitment, a week of health and prosperity, a week of berakah and Shalom {peace}. Hallelu’Yah!


Yahweh Berakah {Blessing} 


Leader: Yahweh spoke to Moshe saying speak to Aaron saying speak to the children of Yisra’Yah and this is what you shall say to them. Yish-va-re-ch’cha Yahweh va’yish’ma’re-cha.Ya-eir Yahweh pa-nav ei-le-cha vi-chu-ne-cha. Yis-sa Yahweh pa-nav ei-le-cha v’ya-seim lecha shalom.


Congregation: Yahweh barak {bless} you and keep you; Yahweh makes His face shine upon you and be tov {good} to you; Yahweh lifts His countenance upon you and give you Shalom {Peace}.
THE PESACH SERVICE
Berakah (blessing): before Lighting the Menorah
Barukh atah Yahweh, Ab-ba, melekh ha'olam
asher kidishanu b'mitz'votav v'tzivanu
l'had'lik neir shel Shabbat.  
Praise are you, Yahweh, our Ab-ba, sovereign of the universe
Who has set apart us with His commandments and
commanded us to light the lights of Shabbat.
 Selection From The Scriptures:
                                                                                                                                                                                        Leader: (Eccl. 9:10) All that your hand finds to do, do it with your might; for there is no work or planning or knowledge or wisdom in She'ol (grave) where you are going.


Congregation: (Yesha’Yah.40:8)“Grass shall wither, the flower shall fade, but the Word of Yahweh stands forever.


Leader: (Mishle. 24:17) Do not exult when your enemy falls, and let not your heart rejoice when he stumbles; Do not say, ''Let me do to him as he did to me;
(Mishle.25:21) If your enemy is hungry give him bread to eat, and if he is thirsty give him water to drink,


Shalom aleichem Brothers and Sisters
Welcome to the Hikal (Temple) of Yahweh and Pesach Celebration


These are some wise sayings:


Leader: Truth is the Seal of Yahweh
Before prayers examine your heart, whether it is in a prayerful mood;
if thou art distracted pray not at all. Prayer without devotion is as a body without a soul.


He who practices justice and kindness, establishes the kingdom of Yahweh in the world.


He, who makest another perform a deed, is greater than the doer
When children honor their parents, there Yahweh dwells, there he is honored.
As the ocean never freezes, so the gate of repentance is never closed.
Great is dignity of labor; it honors a man.


Improve yourself and then improve others.
When a man has turned from sin, reproach him no more.
Position cannot honor the man the man must honor the position.  


The Shima  
SHIMA YISRA’YAH, YAHWEH SHADDAY, YAHWEH ECHAD BARUCKH SHEM KH’VOD MAL’CHU-TO LO-LAM VA-ED 


Leader: Debarim {Deut 6:4-9}
“Hear, O Yisra’Yah: יהוה All-Mighty, יהוה is one! “And you shall love יהוה your All-Mighty with all your heart, and with all your being, and with all your might. “And these Words which I am commanding you hayom {today} shall be in your heart, And you shall impress them upon your children, and shall speak of them when you sit in your house, and when you walk by the way, and when you lie down, and when you rise up, and shall bind them as a sign on your hand, and they shall be as frontlets between your eyes. “And you shall write them on the doorposts of your house and on your gates.
Debarim {Deut 11:13-21}
‘And it shall be that if you diligently obey My commands which I command you hayom {today}, to love יהוה your Ab-ba and to serve Him with all your heart and with all your being,
Then I shall give you the rain for your land in its season, the early rain and the latter rain, and you shall gather in your grain, and your new wine, and your oil. ‘And I shall give grass in your fields for your livestock, and you shall eat and be satisfied.
‘Guard yourselves, lest your heart be deceived, and you turn aside and serve other mighty ones and bow down to them. ‘Then the displeasure of יהוה shall burn against you, and He shall shut up the shamayim {heaven}, and there be no rain, and the lands not give its increase. And you shall perish quickly from the tov {good} land which יהוה is giving you. ‘And you shall lay up these words of Mine in your heart and in your being, and shall bind them as a sign on your hand, and they shall be as frontlets between your eyes. ‘And you shall teach them to your children, speaking of them when you sit in your house, and when you walk by the way, and when you lie down, and when you rise up. And shall write them on the doorposts of your house and on your gates, So that your Chai {life} and the Chai {life} of your children are increased on the soil of which יהוה swore to your fathers to give them, as the yomim {days} of the Shamayim
{heavens} on the erets {earth}.
Bemidbar {Num 15:37-41}
And יהוה spoke to Mosheh, {Moses} saying, “Speak to the children of Yisra’Yah, and you shall say to them to make tzitzit (fringes) on the corners of their garments throughout their generations, and to put a blue cord in the tzitzit of the corners. “And it shall be to you for a tzitzit, and you shall see it, and shall remember all the commands of יהוה and shall do them, and not search after your own heart and your own eyes after which you went whoring, So that you remember, and shall do all My commands, and be set-apart unto your Ab-ba. “I am יהוה Your Ab-ba, who brought you out of the land of Mitsrayim {Egypt}, to be your Ab-ba. I am יהוה Your Ab-ba.”


PESACH PRAYERS 


1.Leader:  Abba (Father) of all generations, the past is Your handiwork and the splendours of the future Your promise. On this festival of Pesach, we are gathered in Your house to recall Your wonders of old. When we were slaves in Mistrayim and suffered under the lash of taskmasters, Thou did send Your servants, Mosheh and Aaron, to stand in the presence of Pharaoh and proclaim in Your name: Let My people go that they may serve Me. The cruel heart of the tyrant and the might of his armies did not avail against Your liberating word, and Yisra’Yah marched forth from Mistrayim with songs and rejoicing to find freedom in Your service. This was Your will in ancient yomim (days), and it is Your law forever. Wherever the yoke of serfdom is broken, wherever tyrants are overthrown, wherever Your children live as free men, there is Your word fulfilled and Your will triumphant. To every soul comes Your command:    Be servants unto Me alone, and not slaves to man. 
Teach us, O Yahweh, to accept and cherish Your Torah (law) of liberty. Guide us with Your wisdom that we may grow in knowledge and in sympathy, and keep our judgment free from passion or prejudice. May we strive for the redemption of our souls and thus become messengers of freedom to all Your children. In Your power, O Abba, is the fate of nations. Yahweh who did break Pharaoh's yoke and bid the slaves go free, be Thou our help in every time of peril. Let all men see that the might of armies and the power of tyrants must vanish like smoke before the force of  Your spirit. May the coming year bring a new Pesach of freedom to all Your children in every land. Hallelu'Yah. 


2.Congregation: O Yahweh of the universe, Thou dost manifest Your creative power in the world about us. We are bidden to observe this season when Thou didst redeem our fathers from the slavery of Mistrayim, that they might go forth to serve Thee in freedom. Help us to cast off the chains that bind our spirits, and to free ourselves from the selfishness and indifference that keep us from Thee. May there be release within our souls, are awakening of love for Thee. Grant, O Yahweh, that Your people Yisra’Yah may be freed from the tyranny that sorely besets them, and from the sorrow and despair that burden their hearts. Redeem us, O Yahweh, from the serfdom of ignorance and irreverence that we may continue to fulfil our historic task as Your servants and witnesses. Strengthen our hearts with unswerving faith and serene trust in Your providence. Thus, shall we become champions of justice upon earth. Fervently we pray for the universal springtide in the life of mankind when the long winter of intolerance and hatred shall have passed, the vision of the prophets fulfilled and the splendour of Your king acknowledged of all men.


Praise Songs 


We are now ready to begin Kiddush (cup of separation ) which means to set-apart or to make sacred. When Yahweh the Most High said that he would take Yisra’Yah out of Mitstrayim, {Egypt} He separated them. Four cups of wine is used in the seder (order) symbolizing four distinct promises made by Yahweh as mentioned in Shemoth (Ex 6:67). These are traditionally referred to as follows:


Cup of separation- I will bring you out of Mitstrayim (Egypt)
Cup of deliverance- I will deliver you from slavery
Cup of redemption- I will redeem you with my power 
Cup of restoration- I will take you as my people   


The Service proceeds ensuing manner
Kiddush – Cup of Sanctification.
Taking the goblet in his hand, the leader chants the following:


Baruch attah Yahweh Shaddey Melech ha-olam boray priy ha-gefen. Baruch attah Yahweh Shaddey Melech ha-olam asher bacher banoo mikol am vero-mama-noo mikol lashon veki-desha-noo bemitsvotav vati-ten lanoo Yahweh Shaddey be-ahava (shabbatot lim-noo-cha oo) mo-adim lesim-cha chagim ooz-manim lesason et yom (ha-shabbat huzeh ve-et yom) chag hamat-sot huzeh zeman cheyrootaynoo         (be-ahava) mikra kodesh zaycher liytsiyat mitsrayim. Kiy vanoo vacharta ve-otano kidashta mikol ha-amim (veshabbat) oomo-oday kodshecha (be-ahava ooveratson) besimcha oove-sason hinchaltanoo Baruch attah Yahweh mekadesh (ha-shabbat ve) Yisra’Yah vehaz-mamim. Baruch attah Yahweh Shaddey Melech ha-olam she-he-che-yano 0 vekiy-manoo vehi-gi-yanoo laz-man huzeh.


Praise art Thou, 0 Yahweh our Abba, Sovereign of the Universe, who creates the fruit of the vine. Praise art Thou 0 Yahweh Shaddey, Sovereign of the Universe; who has chosen us from all peoples, and hast exalted us above all tongues, and hast sanctified us by Your commandments. And Thou hast given us, O Yahweh our Abba, in Love (Sabbaths for rest and anniversaries for rejoicing, Festivals and seasons for gladness (this Sabbath yom (day) and this Feast of Pesach, the season of our freedom, in love, a Set-apart convocation a memorial of our departure from Mitsrayim. For in us has Thou chosen and Thou has set-apart us above all peoples: and Thou has given us as heritage Your Set-apart (Sabbath and) seasons in love and in favour, in simcah (joy) and in gladness. Praise art Thou, O Yahweh, who set-apart (the Sabbath and) Yisra’Yah and the festive seasons. Praise art Thou, O Yahweh, our Abba, Sovereign of the Universe, who has preserved us and sustained us and enabled us to reach this season.
AlleluYah


Then Drink the Wine in a leaning position; after which, wash is hands, but do not say the Blessing. The Master of the House then
takes Parsley, or Chervil, and dips it into Vinegar, or Salt Water,
and having distributed it give some to everyone at the Table, they all say the following 
Grace before they eat it.


Praise art thou, O Yahweh, our Abba! Sovereign of the universe; who
create the fruit of the arets (earth).


Leader:  Barukh attah Y        ahweh Shaddey melekh ha-olam, nethan  lechem erets.


Congregation: praise or You, Yahweh All-Mighty, Sovereign of the universe, who giveth bread from the earth.


The Master of the House then  place the matza in the dish Then fill again the glass with wine, and say, This is the bread of affliction which our ancestors ate in the land of Mitsrayim: let all those who are hungry enter and eat thereof; and all who are needy, come and celebrate the Pesach (Passover).
At this season, next year, may the whole house of Yisra’Yah be free!


The youngest present asks “The Four Question: .
Why is this night different from all other nights? For on all other night we eat both leavened and unleavened bread, but on this night only leavened bread? On all other night we eat any kind of herbs, but on this night bitter herbs? On all other nights we do not dip our herbs even once, but on this night we dip twice? On all other nights we eat either sitting or leaning, but on this night we all lean?


The following answeris given:


Slaves were we uato Pharaoh in the land of Mitsrayim, and the Eternal Yahweh all- Mighty! Brought us forth from thence, with a mighty hand and an outstretched arm; and if the Set-apart One, praise be He had not brought forth our ancestors from Mitsrayim, we, and our children, and our childrens children, had still continued in bandage to the Pharaohs in Mitsrayim; therefore, even if we were all learned, all men of understanding, all of us having knowledge in the Torah (law), it nevertheless would be incumbent upon us to recount the departure from Mitsrayim; and it is accounted praiseworthy to discourse at length thereon.


THE TEN PLAGUES


 These are the ten plagues which the Set-apart One.baruk (blessed) be He, brought on Mitsrayim.
Blood--Frogs--Lice--Flies, Murrian--Boils--Hail--Locusts--Darkness--Slaying--of the First Born.   


THE PESACH SYMBOLS


PESACH   --------------------   the Passover.
MATZAH ---------------------  the Unleavened.
Umaror ------------------------  the Bitter Herbs


Recite Tehillim (Psalm) 113-114.
                                                                                                                                     


Then all read together the blessing over the wine:


Baruch attah Yahweh Shadday melech ha-olam boray priy hagefen.


Then drink the second glass of wine


        
The Pesach meal will be served


Baruch hoo oovarooch shemo. Baruch attah Adonai Elohaynu
Melech ha-olam hazan et gn-olam coolo betoovo bechen bechesed
ooverachamim hoo noten lechem lechol bassar kiy le-olam chasdo,
oovetoovo hagadol tamid lo chas-sar lanoo ve-al yechsar lanoo mazon
le-olam va-ed ba-avoor shemo hagadol. Kiy hoo zan oomefarness
lakol oomavtiv lakol oomaychin mazon lechol beriy-otav asher bara.
Beruch attah Adonai hazan et hakol. Adonai oz le-armo yiten Adonai
yevare ch et arno vashalom.


Blessed is He, and blessed be His name. Blessed art Thou, 0 Yahweh our Abba, King of the universe, who feeds the whole world with His goodness, with grace, with loving-Kindness and with mercy. He gives food to all flesh for His kindness endures forever. And in His great goodness we have always never lacked, and may we never lack food for ever and ever, for the sake of His great name. For He feeds and sustains all, and does tov (good) to all, and prepares food for all His creatures which He created. Blessed art Thou, O Yahweh, who provides food for all.


Yahweh will give strength to his people, Yahweh will bless his people with peace.


The third cup: Drink the wine after saying the blessing.


Open the door and say the following:
Of old, our ancestors looked forward to the coming of Elijah to herald the Mashianic Age. Hayom (Today) we pledge ourselves to work for justice, love and brotherhood to prevail among mankind, and we open our door that all the world may know it.


Take the fourth cup:.


The Celebrant lifts the fourth cup of wine and say, 
Chasal siddurPesach kehilchato, kechol mishpato vechukkato 


The commemoration of the Pesach is now accomplished, according to its order and its prescribed ceremonies. May our prayers be acceptable to The All-Mighty Yahweh. With songs of praise we have lifted up the cup of wine symbolizing His Divine promises. May He Who establish shalom (peace) in His high places bestow through His Infinite Mercy peace upon us and upon all mankind. So be it 


                                                           The Aaronic Berakah


Leader: Yish-va-re-ch’cha Yahweh va’yish’ma’re-cha.Ya-eir Yahweh pa-nav ei-le-cha vi-chu-ne-cha. Yis-sa Yahweh pa-nav ei-le-cha v’ya-seim l’cha shalom.


Yahweh barak you and keep you; Yahweh make His face shine upon you and be tov to you; Yahweh lift up His countenance upon you and give you Shalom
Feast Unleavened of Bread (Matzah) — First Yom
Shalom Alechem my brothers and sisters!
Welcome to the Hikal (The Temple) of יהוה and The Celebration of the Feast of Unleavened Bread (matzah).


In the book of Wayyiqra (Lev 23 4-8)


4‘These are the appointed times of יהוה, set-apart gatherings which you are to proclaim at their appointed times.
5‘In the first new moon, on the fourteenth day of the new moon, between the evenings, is the Pĕsaḥ to יהוה.
6‘And on the fifteenth day of this new moon is the Festival of Matzot to יהוה – seven days you eat unleavened bread.
7‘On the first day you have a set-apart gathering, you do no servile work.
8‘And you shall bring an offering made by fire to יהוה for seven days. On the seventh day is a set-apart gathering, you do no servile work.’ ”


Let us put our hands to gather and give Yahweh tanks for this Celebration
And the Ru’ach that is in our mids


The National Anthem: Yah’maica (Jamaica) 


The National Anthem: Yisra’Yah (Israel)                                                                      


The Shima


AHIMA YISRA’YAH, YAHWEH SHADDAY, YAHWEH ECHAD BARUCKH SHEM KH’VOD MAL’CHU-TO LO-LAM VA-ED 


Leader: Debarim {Deut 6:4-9}
“Hear, O Yisra’Yah: יהוה All-Mighty, יהוה is one!
“And you shall love יהוה your All-Mighty with all your heart, and with all your being, and with all your might.
“And these Words which I am commanding you hayom {today} shall be in your heart,
And you shall impress them upon your children, and shall speak of them when you sit in your house, and when you walk by the way, and when you lie down, and when you rise up, and shall bind them as a sign on your hand, and they shall be as frontlets between your eyes.
“And you shall write them on the doorposts of your house and on your gates.
Debarim {Deut 11:13-21}
‘And it shall be that if you diligently obey My commands which I command you hayom {today}, to love יהוה your Ab-ba and to serve Him with all your heart and with all your being,
Then I shall give you the rain for your land in its season, the early rain and the latter rain, and you shall gather in your grain, and your new wine, and your oil.
‘And I shall give grass in your fields for your livestock, and you shall eat and be satisfied.
‘Guard yourselves, lest your heart be deceived, and you turn aside and serve other mighty ones and bow down to them.
‘Then the displeasure of יהוה shall burn against you, and He shall shut up the shamayim {heaven}, and there be no rain, and the lands not give its increase. And you shall perish quickly from the tov {good} land which יהוה is giving you.
‘And you shall lay up these words of Mine in your heart and in your being, and shall bind them as a sign on your hand, and they shall be as frontlets between your eyes.
‘And you shall teach them to your children, speaking of them when you sit in your house, and when you walk by the way, and when you lie down, and when you rise up.
And shall write them on the doorposts of your house and on your gates,
So that your Chai {life} and the Chai {life} of your children are increased on the soil of which יהוה swore to your fathers to give them, as the yomim {days} of the shamayim {heavens} on the erets {earth}.
Bemidbar {Num 15:37-41}
And יהוה spoke to Mosheh, {Moses} saying,
“Speak to the children of Yisra’Yah, and you shall say to them to make tzitzit (fringes) on the corners of their garments throughout their generations, and to put a blue cord in the tzitzit of the corners.
“And it shall be to you for a tzitzit, and you shall see it, and shall remember all the commands of יהוה and shall do them, and not search after your own heart and your own eyes after which you went whoring,
So that you remember, and shall do all My commands, and be set-apart unto your Ab-ba.
“I am יהוה Your Ab-ba, who brought you out of the land of Mitsrayim {Egypt}, to be your Ab-ba.                                                                                                                                I am יהוה Your Ab-ba.”


Opening berakah (blessings)


Leader: BA-RUKH A-TAH YAHWEH SHADDAY HAME-VORACH BA-RUCH YAHWEH
HAME VORACH LE-GNO-LAM VAED                                                                                 
Congregation: Praise are You, Yahweh All-Mighty, Sovereign of the universe, who form light   
And creates darkness, who make peace and creates all things


Opening Prayer Leader:


3. Oh, Yahweh, our Abba, and Abba of our fathers, we greet this festival of freedom with joyous hearts, and come into Your house to seek Your presence. As You redeemed our fathers from the slavery of Mistrayim and didst lead them to the land of their inheritance, so hast You been our Saviour and Guardian through all the providence has guided us by yom (day) and by night. We thank You, Oh Yahweh, our Redeemer, that our lot has fallen. In this blessed land, dedicated to liberty and peace. May we be imbued with a deep sense of our duty as free men; and, when we gather in our homes in happy family reunion, may we be mindful of those who still dwell in the house of bondage and eat the bread of affliction. Oh that the good tidings of redemption may soon be heard in every land. May those who hunger after freedom and justice be satisfied, and may all mankind be blessed with the joys of brotherhood and peace. Praised be You, Oh Yahweh our Abba, Ruler of the world, who hast granted us life, sustained us, and permitted us to celebrate this joyous festival. 




Congregation: 


4.Almighty Yahweh, on this first yom (day) of Pesach, the anniversary of the Exodus of our ancestors from bondage in Mistrayim, we turn our eyes and thoughts towards You, and acknowledge You as the source of all salvation, the source of life, the source of happiness and the source of freedom. Teach us to fashion our lives that we may live in accordance with Your Set-apart will. Fill us with a love of freedom, and give us the will and the strength to oppose tyranny and subjugation, prejudice and bigotry, wherever they may arise. May this Festival of Pesach inspire us to redouble our efforts in the cause of freedom so that all mankind might partake of its sweet fruits. Hasten the yom (day) when the peoples of the world will enjoy Freedom of Speech, Freedom of Belief, Freedom from Fear and Freedom from want. May we achieve this speedily and in our time, and let us say, Hallelu'Yah. 
                                                                                                                                                        Praise and Worship Song: 


Berakah and the singing of Tehillim: (psalm) 


Leader: BA-RUKH ATAH YAHWEH SHADDAY ME-LEKH HAOLAM, A-SHER QIDSHA-NU' B'MITZ'VO-TAV, V'TZI-VA-NU SHAR ET TE-HI-LLIM
                            
Congregation: praise or You, Yahweh All-Mighty, Sovereign of the universe, who has set-apart 
us by His Word, and instructed us to sing Tehillim


The Tehillim: Prayer and meditation


Tehillim (Psalm) 113-118, 122.


113
1Praise Yah! Praise, O servants of יהוה, Praise the Name of יהוה!
2Blessed be the Name of יהוה, Now and forever!
3From the rising of the sun to its going down, The Name of יהוה is praised.
4יהוה is high above all nations, His esteem above the heavens.
5Who is like יהוה our Elohim, Who is enthroned on high?
6He looks down on the heavens and in the earth;
7He raises the poor out of the dust, Lifts the needy from a dunghill,
8To make him sit with the nobles, With the nobles of His people,
9Causing the barren woman to dwell in a house, A rejoicing mother of children. Praise Yah!
114
1When Yisra’Yah went out of Mitsrayim, The house of Ya‛aqoḇ from a people of strange language,
2Yehuḏah became His set-apart place, And Yisra’Yah His rule.
3The sea saw it and fled; The Yardĕn turned back.
4The mountains skipped like rams, The little hills like lambs.
5Why was it, O sea, that you fled? O Yardĕn, that you turned back?
6O mountains, that you skipped like rams? O little hills, like lambs?
7Tremble, O earth, from the face of the Master, From the face of the Mighty One of Ya‛aqoḇ,
8Who turned the rock into a pool of water, The flint into a fountain of water.


TEHILLIM (PSALMS) 115


1. Not to us, O יהוה, not to us, But to Your Name give esteem, For Your loving-commitment, For Your truth.
2. Why should the nations say, “Where now is their Mighty One?”
3. But our Abba is in the heavens; Whatever pleased Him, He has done.
4. Their idols are silver and gold, The work of men’s hands.
5. They have mouths, but they do not speak; They have eyes, but they do not see;
6. They have ears, but they do not hear; They have noses, but they do not smell;
7. They have hands, but they do not handle; They have feet, but they do not walk; They make no sound through their throat.
8. The ones who make them, shall become like them – All who trust in them.
9. O Yisra’Yah, trust in יהוה; He is their help and their shield.
10. O house of Aharon, trust in יהוה; He is their help and their shield.
11. You who fear יהוה, trust in יהוה; He is their help and their shield.
12. יהוה  has remembered us; He baruk (blesses) us; He blesses the house of Yisra’Yah; He baruk (blesses) the house of Aharon.
13. He baruk (blesses) those who fear יהוה, The small and the great.
14יהוה gives you increase more and more, You and your children.
15You are baruk (blessed) by יהוה, Who made the heavens and earth.
16The heavens are the heavens of יהוה; But He has given the earth to the children of men.
17The dead do not praise Yah, Nor any going down to silence.
18But we, we barak (bless) Yah Now and forever. Praise Yah!
116
1I love יהוה, because He has heard my voice, my pleas.
2Because He has inclined His ear to me, And I shall call throughout my yomim (days).
3The cords of death were around me, And the pains of She’ol came upon me; I found distress and sorrow.
4Then I called upon the Name of יהוה, “O יהוה, I pray to You, deliver my being!”
5יהוה shows favour and is righteous; and our Abba is compassionate.
6יהוה guards the simple; I was brought low, but He saved me.
7Return to your rest, O my being, For יהוה has treated you well.
8For You have delivered my being from death, My eyes from tears, My feet from falling.
9I shall walk before יהוה in the land of the living.
10I have believed, for I speak; I have been greatly afflicted.
11I said in my haste, “All men are liars.”
12What shall I return to יהוה? All His bounties are upon me.
13I lift up the cup of deliverance, And call upon the Name of יהוה.
14I pay my vows to יהוה Now in the presence of all His people.
15Precious in the eyes of יהוה Is the death of His lovingly-committed ones.
16O יהוה, I am truly Your servant, I am Your servant, the son of Your female servant; You have loosed my bonds.
17I slaughter You a slaughtering of thanksgiving, And call upon the Name of יהוה.
18I pay my vows to יהוה In the presence of all His people,
19In the courts of the House of יהוה, In your midst, O Yahushalayim. Praise Yah!
117
1Praise יהוה, all you nations! Extol Him, all you peoples!
2For His loving-commitment is mighty over us, And the truth of יהוה is everlasting. Praise Yah!
118
1Oh, give thanks to יהוה, for He is tov (good)! Because His loving-commitment is everlasting.
2Let Yisra’Yah now say, “His loving-commitment is everlasting.”
3Let the house of Aharon now say, “His loving-commitment is everlasting.”
4Let those who fear יהוה now say, “His loving-commitment is everlasting.”
5I called on Yah in distress; Yah answered me in a broad place.
6יהוה is on my side; I do not fear what man does to me!
7יהוה is for me among those helping me; Therefore I look on those hating me.
8It is better to take refuge in יהוה Than to trust in man.
9It is better to take refuge in יהוה Than to trust in princes.
10All the nations surrounded me, In the Name of יהוה I shall cut them off.
11They surrounded me, Yes, they surrounded me; In the Name of יהוה shall I cut them off.
12They surrounded me like bees; They were extinguished like burning thorns; In the Name of יהוה I shall cut them off.
13Pushing, the enemy pushed me to fall, But יהוה helped me.
14Yah is my strength and song, And He has become my deliverance.
15The voice of rejoicing and deliverance is in the tents of the righteous; The right hand of יהוה is doing mightily.
16The right hand of יהוה is exalted, The right hand of יהוה acts mightily.
17Let me not die, but live, And declare the works of Yah.
18Yah has punished me severely, But did not give me over to death.
19Open to me the gates of righteousness; I enter through them, I thank Yah.
20This is the gate of יהוה, The righteous enter through it.
21I thank You, For You have answered me, And have become my deliverance.
22The stone which the builders rejected Has become the chief corner-stone.
23This was from יהוה, It is marvellous in our eyes.
24This is the day יהוה has made, Let us rejoice and be glad in it.
25I pray, O יהוה, please save us now; I pray, O יהוה, please send prosperity.
26Blessed is He who is coming in the Name of יהוה! We shall bless you from the House of יהוה.
27יהוה is Mighty, and He gave us light; Bind the festival offering With cords to the horns of the slaughter-place.
28You are my Mighty One, and I praise You; You are my Abba, I exalt You.
29Give thanks to יהוה, for He is good! For His loving-commitment is everlasting.
TEHILLIM (PSALMS) 122
1I was glad when they said to me, “Let us go into the House of יהוה.”
2Our feet have been standing Within your gates, O Yahushalayim!
3Yahushalayim is built as a city that is bound together,
4Where the tribes have come up, The tribes of Yah, A witness to Yisra’Yah, To give thanks to the Name of יהוה.
5For there the thrones of right-ruling were set, The thrones of the house of Dawiḏ.
6Pray for the peace of Yahushalayim, Let those who love You be at rest.
7Peace be within your walls, Rest in your citadels.
8For the sake of my brothers and companions, I say, “salom (Peace) be within you.”
9For the sake of the House of יהוה our Abba I seek your tov (good).
Tehillim Berakah (After)                                                                                                               Leader: BA-RUKH ATAH YAHWEH ABBA MELEKH HA-OLAM, ASHER QID’SHA-NU  B'MITZ'VO- TAV, V'TVI-VA NU SHAR ET TEHILLIM  
Congregation: praise or You, Yahweh our Father, Sovereign of the universe, who has set-part us 
By His word, and instructed us to sing Tehillim. 


Praise and Worship Song: 


Mishle: words of wisdom
                                                                                                  
Berakah and reading of the Mishle: (and after)


Leader: BA-RUKH ATAH YAHWEH ABBA MELEKH HA-OLAM, ASHER BACHAR BIN’VI-IM TO-VIM V’RA-TZAH V’DIV’REI-HEM HA-NEE-MA-RIM BEE-MET.  


Congregation: Praised are you, Yahweh our Father, Sovereign of the universe, who selected tov (good) prophets, delighting in their words which were spoken truthfully.                                      


Song: A solo


Nabbi: (Prophet) The inspired Teachings of Yahweh


Berakah and reading of Nabbi: (and after)


Leader: BARUKH ATAH YAHWEH ABBA MELEKH HA-O-LAM, ASHER BACHAR 
BINVI-IM TOVIM, VA-RAT-ZAH VA’DIV’REI-HEMDAY HA-NEE-MA-RIM BEE-MET


Congregation: praised are you, Yahweh our Father, Sovereign of the universe who selected tov (good) prophets, delighting in their words which were spoken truthfully.                                                                                                                                                            


Song: Hine’ma-tov: 


Berakah and Teaching of the Torah: 


Leader: BARUKH ATAH YAHWEH ABBA MELEKH HA-O-LAM, ASHER BACHAR 
BANU MIKHAL HA-A-MIM V'NATAN LANU ET TORATO BARUKH ATAH YAHWEH, NO-TEIN HA-TORAH. 


Congregation: praise or you, Yahweh our Father, Sovereign of the universe, who chose us from all the peoples by giving us Torah. praise are You, Yahweh, giver of the Torah.


Closing prayer:
                                
Supper: 


                                    
THE SEVENTH DAY OF PESACH
Shalom Alachem my brothers and sisters!


Welcome to the Hikal (The Temple) of יהוה and The Celebration of the Feast Unleave Bbread (matzah).


Let us put our hands to gather and give Yahweh tanks for this Celebration
And the Ru’ach that is in our midst.


The National Anthem: Yah’maica (Jamaica) 


The National Anthem: Yisra’Yah (Israel)                                                                       


The Shema


SHIMA YISRA’YAH, YAHWEH SHADDAY, YAHWEH ECHAD BARUCKH SHEM KH’VOD MAL’CHU-TO LO-LAM VA-ED 


Leader: Debarim {Deut 6:4-9}


“Hear, O Yisra’Yah: יהוה All-Mighty, יהוה is one!


“And you shall love יהוה your All-Mighty with all your heart, and with all your being, and with all your might.


“And these Words which I am commanding you hayom {today} shall be in your heart,
And you shall impress them upon your children, and shall speak of them when you sit in your house, and when you walk by the way, and when you lie down, and when you rise up, and shall bind them as a sign on your hand, and they shall be as frontlets between your eyes.


“And you shall write them on the doorposts of your house and on your gates.


Debarim {Deut 11:13-21}


‘And it shall be that if you diligently obey My commands which I command you hayom {today}, to love יהוה your Ab-ba and to serve Him with all your heart and with all your being,
Then I shall give you the rain for your land in its season, the early rain and the latter rain, and you shall gather in your grain, and your new wine, and your oil.


‘And I shall give grass in your fields for your livestock, and you shall eat and be satisfied.
‘Guard yourselves, lest your heart be deceived, and you turn aside and serve other mighty ones and bow down to them.


‘Then the displeasure of יהוה shall burn against you, and He shall shut up the shamayim {heaven}, and there be no rain, and the lands not give its increase. And you shall perish quickly from the tov {good} land which יהוה is giving you.


‘And you shall lay up these words of Mine in your heart and in your being, and shall bind them as a sign on your hand, and they shall be as frontlets between your eyes.


‘And you shall teach them to your children, speaking of them when you sit in your house, and when you walk by the way, and when you lie down, and when you rise up.
And shall write them on the doorposts of your house and on your gates,
So that your Chai {life} and the Chai {life} of your children are increased on the soil of which יהוה swore to your fathers to give them, as the yomim {days} of the shamayim {heavens} on the erets {earth}.


Bemidbar {Num 15:37-41}


And יהוה spoke to Mosheh, {Moses} saying,


“Speak to the children of Yisra’Yah, and you shall say to them to make tzitzit (fringes) on the corners of their garments throughout their generations, and to put a blue cord in the tzitzit of the corners.


“And it shall be to you for a tzitzit, and you shall see it, and shall remember all the commands of יהוה shall do them, and not search after your own heart and your own eyes after which you went whoring,


So that you remember, and shall do all My commands, and be set-apart unto your Ab-ba. “I am יהוה Your Ab-ba, who brought you out of the land of Mitsrayim {Egypt}, to be your Ab-ba.                                                                                                                               


I am יהוה Your Ab-ba.”


Opening berakah (blessings)


Opening Prayer


Leader: With grateful hearts and joyous songs, we stand before You, O Yahweh, stirred anew by the revived memories of Your wondrous redemption in the yomim (days) of yore. Marvelous have been Your works are at all times to the children of men. You satisfy the longing soul and the hungry, you fill with tov (good). They that sit in darkness and in the shadow of death cry unto You and are delivered from their affliction. 


Abba of freedom, Your children still groan under the burden of cruel taskmasters. Slavery debases their bodies and minds and robs them of the enjoyment of Your bounties. The fear of cruelty and the peril of death blight the souls of men. O break the irons that bind them. 


Teach men to understand that by forging chains for others, they forge chains for themselves, that as long as some are in fetters, no one is truly free. Help them to see that liberty is the very breath of life and that only in the atmosphere of freedom can truth, prosperity and peace flourish. Imbue us with courage to guard our heritage of freedom above all material goods and to preserve it for others so that all men shall dwell together in safety and none shall make them afraid. HalleluYah. 


Congregation: Our Abba and Master! As the week of Pesach draws to its close, we come into Your house in the knowledge that where You are, there is unending life and hope, liberty and peace. You revive the spirit of the downcast and lift up from the very gates of death. Bestow Your blessing upon us and grant renewal of courage to hearts that have grown weary in the battle for justice. Strengthen their faith in the ultimate triumph of the right. Let Your light shine into our spirits and liberate us and all the children of men from fear and anguish. May the hope of springtime and the promise of freedom find speedy fulfilment in a splendorous harvest of life enriched and redeemed. HalleluYah.


Song:


Nabbi: (Prophet) The inspired Teachings of Yahweh


Berakah and reading of Nabbi: (and after)


Leader: BARUKH ATAH YAHWEH ABBA MELEKH HA-O-LAM, ASHER BACHAR 
BINVI-IM TOVIM, VA-RAT-ZAH VA’DIV’REI-HEMDAY HA-NEE-MA-RIM BEE-MET    


Congregation: praised are you, Yahweh our Father, Sovereign of the universe who selected tov 
(good) prophets, delighting in their words which were spoken truthfully.                               


Song: Hinei Ma Tov: 


Berakah and Teaching of the Torah:


Leader: BARUKH ATAH YAHWEH ABBA MELEKH HA-O-LAM, ASHER BACHAR
BANU MIKHAL HA-A-MIM V'NATAN LANU ET TORATO BARUKH ATAH YAHWEH, NO-TEIN HA-TORAH.
Congregation: Praised are you, Yahweh our Father, Sovereign of the universe, who chose us from all the peoples by giving us Torah. praise are You, Yahweh, giver of the Torah.


Closing Prayer:                                


O Yahweh our Abba, on this closing eve of the feast of our freedom, we gather to thank You for the blessings which it has bestowed and for the message it has brought. Delivered by Your hand from the tyrant's might, YisraYah sang a song of praise unto You by the shore of the Red Sea. Many times since hast You saved us from the fury of men and from the floods of destruction. In peril and in need hast You been our tower of strength. O continue to redeem us and all Your children from danger and oppression. Wherever men groan under the yoke of servitude, hasten to deliver them. Cleanse the hearts of men and their rulers of the passions of hate and strife, of greed and lust for power, and fill them with tov (good) will and the love of justice. Speed the Pesach of the future, when tyranny and slavery shall cease, when sword and spear shall be broken, and freedom and peace shall reign forever. On that yom (day), all men shall come to know that they are brothers, and with gladness and song proclaim Thee their Abba and Redeemer. HalleluYah 


 SHAVUOT {PENTECOST} MORNING SERVICE 
Shalom aleichem my Brothers and Sisters  
Welcome to the Hikal (Temple) of יהוה and Shavuot Celebration.
This is another yom (day) that Yahweh has given us; we are here to mark another moment of life and it is a time that we all looked forward to. This is a celebration to give honor and esteem Yahweh for the love given to us, as a congregation we give Him honor and esteem


The National Anthem: Yah’maica (Jamaica) 


The National Anthem: Yisra’Yah (Israel)                                                                       


The Shima  


SHIMA YISRA’YAH, YAHWEH SHADDAY, YAHWEH ECHAD BARUCKH SHEM KH’VOD MAL’CHU-TO LO-LAM VA-ED 


Leader: Debarim (Deut 6:4-9
“Hear, O Yisra’Yah: יהוה All-Mighty, יהוה is one!
“And you shall love יהוה your All-Mighty with all your heart, and with all your being, and with all your might.
“And these Words which I am commanding you hayom {today} shall be in your heart,
And you shall impress them upon your children, and shall speak of them when you sit in your house, and when you walk by the way, and when you lie down, and when you rise up, 8. And shall bind them as a sign on your hand, and they shall be as frontlets between your eyes.
“And you shall write them on the doorposts of your house and on your gates.
Debarim (Deut 11:13-21
‘And it shall be that if you diligently obey My commands which I command you   hayom {today}, to love יהוה your Ab-ba and to serve Him with all your heart and with all your being, Then I shall give you the rain for your land in its season, the early rain and the latter rain, and you shall gather in your grain, and your new wine, and your oil. ‘And I shall give grass in your fields for your livestock, and you shall eat and be satisfied. ‘Guard yourselves, lest your heart be deceived, and you turn aside and serve other mighty ones and bow down to them. ‘Then the displeasure of יהוה shall burn against you, and He shall shut up the shamayim {heaven}, and there be no rain, and the lands not give its increase. And you shall perish quickly from the tov {good} land which יהוה is giving you. ‘And you shall lay up these words of Mine in your heart and in your being, and shall bind them as a sign on your hand, and they shall be as frontlets between your eyes. ‘And you shall teach them to your children, speaking of them when you sit in your house, and when you walk by the way, and when you lie down, and when you rise up. And shall write them on the doorposts of your house and on your gates, so that your Chai {life} and the Chai {life} of your children are increased on the soil of which יהוה swore to your fathers to give them, as the yomim {days} of the shamayim {heavens} on the erets {earth}.
Bemidbar (Num 15:37-41)
And יהוה spoke to Mosheh (Moses), saying, “Speak to the children of Yisra’Yah, and you shall say to them to make tzitzit (fringes) on the corners of their garments throughout their generations, and to put a blue cord in the tzitzit of the corners. “And it shall be to you for a tzitzit, and you shall see it, and shall remember all the commands of יהוה and shall do them, and not search after your own heart and your own eyes after which you went whoring, so that you remember, and shall do all My commands, and be set-apart unto your Ab-ba. “I am יהוה Your Ab-ba, who brought you out of the land of Mitsrayim {Egypt}, to be your Ab-ba. I am יהוה Your Ab-ba.”


Opening Berakah: (Blessing)


“Praise are You, O Yahweh our Ab-ba, Sovereign of the universe, who hast set-apart us with thy commandments, and has enjoined us to count the omer. This is the first yom of the omer. May it please You, O Yahweh our Ab-ba, and the Ab-ba of our fathers, to rebuild the Temple speedily in our yomim (days), and give us our portion in thy Torah (Law). 


Opening Prayer: 


Leader: Praise be to Yahweh our Ab-ba who has shown exceeding love unto Yisra’Yah. He has entrusted unto us, since the yomim (days) of old, Torat (laws) and mitzvah (commandments) to guide us in the search for truth and in the practice of righteousness. Therefore we are bound at all times to meditate on His precepts, and to rejoice in the teaching which He gives unto those who seek Him. He is our guide, and may the knowledge of His tov goodness never depart from us. Praise be to You, our Ab-ba and Ab-ba of our fathers. You did redeem our ancestors from all their trials, and they have left to us a heritage of belief. Teach us, our Ab-ba, to maintain it loyally, so that it may help mankind to find a way of redemption from all that is evil in Thy sight. We trust in You, our Ab-ba, for You alone art our Redeemer. Praise Yahweh. 


Congregation: O everlasting Yahweh, You art our unfailing Guide; Your word is the Torah (law) of our life. On this festival of Shavuot we commemorate the sacred day when Yisra’Yah entered into berith with You. Freed from Pharaoh’s bondage our fathers journeyed through the wilderness till at last they stood in reverence at the foot of Sinai and heard the unforgettable words: I am Yahweh your Ab-ba. Wherever our fathers wandered they carried the memory of Your revelation. Written upon the tablets of their heart was Your command that they dedicate their lives to You and merit the dignity of priesthood in Your service. In your Name they strove to break the yoke of the oppressed, and to bring freedom to the captive. They gave bread to the hungry and shelter to the homeless. They sought an ever deeper knowledge of You and Your will, that they might open the eyes of the blind and lead all men to the light of Your presence.  On this yom of Yisra’Yah’s dedication, we pray for renewed awareness of Your revelation. When the world is filled with sorrow and confusion and the path is hidden from our gaze, help us to see Your eternal purpose. Strengthen our confidence in the triumph of justice among men and nations. Confirm our faith in Your berith that we may continue to carry Your message of brotherhood and shalom (peace) among all the children of men. Praise Yahweh. 


Leader: You, O Yahweh, art the source of knowledge and truth. Your Torah and commandments enlighten our mind and show us the path of righteousness. On this festival of Shavuot we recall the yom (day) when, at the mountain of revelation, our fathers vowed to govern their will in You and to accept those ordinances by which man may nobly live. In all centuries that followed, Your Torah was never forgotten in Yisra’Yah. Our fathers meditate on it yom (day) and laylah (night). The meaning of your mitzvah (commandments) grew ever clearer to them as the generations passed. The Torah became the treasured inheritance of the congregation of Yacob. We, thy children love Your Torah, O Yahweh. Our fathers taught it diligently, so that each generation might understand it and observe it in simchah. On this yom (day) which commemorates Your revelation, we bring our children unto Your altar to declare their allegiance to You and Your mitzvah (commandments). Be You with them on this set-apart yom (day). Grant that Your word proclaimed of old become a living message to every soul. Now and throughout their lives may they come with clean hands and pure heart to ascend Your hold mountain. Praise Yahweh.


SHAVUOT AND CONFIRMATION


Leader: Yahweh our Abba, our hearts are filled with simchah (joy) and thankfulness to You on this kodesh festival. Unfailingly, year by year, You dost clothe the earth in radiant beauty and bid it bring its bounteous barakah (blessings). In humble acknowledgement of Your boundless providence, our fathers brought to Your altars on this Kodesh yom (day) the first fruits of their harvest. They chanted songs of gratitude to You for the many gifts of garden and field and for the ripening of the fruit of the Ruach. 


Congregation: Thus did they celebrate the season when You did reveal Your Torah unto Yisra’Yah and did enter into a berith (covenant) with Your people, a berith  Each year on this set-apart festival this vow is renewed, when our sons and daughters stand before You to enter into Yisra’Yah’s eternal berith. In the same words which their fathers spoke, they vow to do and to heed and with the same devotion they pledge themselves unto You. Be You with them, O Yahweh, as You was with our fathers. anoint us all for Your service. Grant that the tov (good) seed we sow may ripen into a harvest of righteousness and truth. Praise Yahweh.    


Songs: 


Tehillim Berakah                                                                                                               


Leader: BA-RUKH ATAH YAHWEH SHADDAY ME-LEKH HAOLAM, A-SHER QIDSHA-NU' B'MITZ'VO-TAV, V'TZI-VA-NU SHAR ET TE-HI-LLIM                             
Congregation: praise or You, Yahweh All-Mighty, Sovereign of the universe, who has set-apart 
us by His Word, and instructed us to sing Tehillim


The Tehillim: Prayers and meditation


PSALMS 19 The Wonders of Yahweh and the esteem of His Torah {Law}


1. The heavens keep telling the wonders of Yahweh, and the skies declare what he has done. 
2. Each yom informs he following day; each night announces to the next. 
3. They don't speak a word, and there is never the sound of a voice. 
4. Yet their message reaches all the earth, and it travels around the world. In the heavens a tent is set up for the sun. 
5. It rises like a bridegroom and gets ready like a hero eager to run a race.
6. It travels all the way across the sky. Nothing hides from its heat.
7. The Torah of Yahweh is perfect; it gives us new life. His teachings last forever, and they give wisdom to ordinary people. 
8. Yahweh instruction is right; it makes our hearts glad. His commands shine brightly, and they give us light. 
9. Worshiping Yahweh is sacred; he will always be worshipped. All his decisions are correct and fair.
10. They are worth more than the finest gold and are sweeter than honey from a honeycomb.
11. By your teachings, Yahweh, I am warned; by obeying them, I am greatly rewarded. 
12. None of us know our faults. Forgive me when I sin without knowing it. 
13. Don't let me do wrong on purpose, Yahweh, or let sin have control over my life. Then I will be innocent, and not guilty of some terrible fault. 
14. Let my words and my thoughts be pleasing to you, Yahweh, because you are my mighty rock and my protector.


PSALMS 21 Thanking the Lord for Victory


1. Our Ab-ba, your mighty power makes the king glad, and he celebrates victories that you have given him. 
2. You did what he wanted most and never told him “No.” 
3. You truly baruk {blessed} the king, and you placed on him a crown of finest gold. 
4. He asked to live a long time, and you promised him life that never ends. 
5. The king is highly honored. You have let him win victories that have made him famous. 
6. You have given him blessings that will last forever, and you have made him glad by being so near to him. 
7. Yahweh Most High, the king trusts you, and your kindness keeps him from defeat. 
8. With your mighty arm, Yahweh, you will strike down all of your hateful enemies. 
9. They will be destroyed by fire once you are here, and because of your anger, flames will swallow them.
10. You will wipe their families from the earth, and they will disappear. 
11. All their plans to harm you will come to nothing. 
12. You will make them run away by shooting your arrows at their faces. 13Show your strength, Yahweh, so that we may sing and praise your power.


PSALMS 24 Who Can Enter Yahweh’s Temple?


1. The earth and everything on it, including its people, belong to Yahweh. The world and its people belong to him. 
2. Yahweh placed it all on the oceans and rivers. 
3. Who may climb Yahweh hill or stand in his Set-apart temple? 
4. Only those who do right for the right reasons, and don't worship idols or tell lies under oath. 
5. Yahweh All-Mighty, who saves them, will barak {bless} and reward them, 
6. because they worship and serve the Ab-ba of Ya’aqob. 
7. Open the ancient gates, so that the esteem Sovereign may come in. 
8. Who is this esteem Sovereign? He is Yahweh, a strong and mighty warrior. 
9. Open the ancient gates, so that the esteem Sovereign may come in. 
10. Who is this esteem Sovereign? He is Yahweh, the All-Powerful!


PSALMS 25 A Prayer for Guidance and Help


1. I offer you my heart, Yahweh All-Mighty, 
2. and I trust you. Don't make me ashamed or let enemies defeat me. 
3. Don't disappoint any of your worshipers, but disappoint all deceitful liars. 
4. Show me your paths and teach me to follow; 
5. guide me by your truth and instruct me. You keep me safe, and I always trust you. 
6. Please, Yahweh, remember, you have always been patient and kind. 
7. Forget each wrong I did when I was young. Show how truly kind you are and remember me.
8. You are honest and compassionate, and you teach sinners how to follow your path. 
9. You lead humble people to do what is right and to stay on your path. 
10. In everything you do, you are kind and faithful to everyone who keeps our agreement with you. 
11. Be true to your name, Yahweh, by forgiving each one of my terrible sins. 
12. You will show the right path to all who worship you. 
13. Then they will have plenty, and their children will receive the land. 
14. Yahweh, you are the friend of your worshipers, and you make an agreement with all of us. 
15. I always look to you, because you rescue me from every trap. 
16. I am lonely and troubled. Show that you care and have pity on me. 
17. My awful worries keep growing. Rescue me from sadness. 
18. See my troubles and misery and forgive my sins.
19. Look at all my enemies! See how much they hate me. 
20. I come to you for shelter. Protect me, keep me safe, and don't disappoint me. 
21. I obey you with all my heart, and I trust you, knowing that you will save me. 
22. Yahweh, please save Yisra’Yah from all its troubles.


PSALMS 27 A Prayer of Praise


1. You, Yahweh, are the light that keeps me safe. I am not afraid of anyone. You protect me, and I have no fears.
2. Brutal people may attack and try to kill me, but they will stumble. Fierce enemies may attack, but they will fall. 
3. Armies may surround me, but I won't be afraid; war may break out, but I will trust you. 
4. I ask only one thing, Yahweh: Let me live in your house every yom {day} of my life to see how wonderful you are and to pray in your temple. 
5. In times of trouble, Yahweh, you will protect me. You will hide me in your tent and keep me safe on top of a mighty rock. 
6. You will let me defeat all my enemies. Then I will celebrate, as I enter your tent with animal sacrifices and songs of praise. 
7. Please listen when I pray! Have pity. Answer my prayer. 
8. My heart tells me to pray. I am eager to see your face, 
9. so don't hide from me. I am your servant, Yahweh, and you have helped me. Don't turn from me in anger. You alone keep me safe. Don't reject or desert me. 
10. Even if my father and mother should desert me, you will take care of me.
11. Teach me to follow, Yahweh, and lead me on the right path because of my enemies. 
12. Don't let them do to me what they want. People tell lies about me and make violent threats, 
13. but I know I will live to see how kind you are. 
14. Trust Yahweh! Be brave and strong and trust Yahweh.


PSALMS 29 The Voice of Yahweh in a Storm


1. All you malakim {angels} in Shamayim, {heaven} honor the esteem and power of Yahweh! 
2. Honor the wonderful name of Yahweh, and worship Yahweh Most Set-apart and esteem. 
3. The voice of Yahweh echoes over the oceans. The esteem Yahweh Most High thunders above the roar of the raging sea, 
4. and his voice is mighty and marvelous. 
5. The voice of Yahweh destroys the cedar trees; Yahweh shatters cedars on Mount Lebanon.
6. Yahweh makes Mount Lebanon skip like a calf and Mount Hermon jump like a wild ox. 
7. The voice of Yahweh makes lightning flash 
8. and the desert tremble. And because of Yahweh, the desert near Qadesh shivers and shakes. 
9. The voice of Yahweh makes deer give birth before their time. Forests are stripped of leaves, and the temple is filled with shouts of praise. 
10. Yahweh rules on his throne, Sovereign of the flood forever. 
11. Pray that Yahweh our Ab-ba will make us strong and give us shalom. {peace}


PSALMS 30 A Prayer of Thanks


1. I will praise you, Yahweh! You saved me from the grave and kept my enemies from celebrating my death. 
2. I prayed to you, Yahweh All-Mighty, and you healed me, 
3. saving me from death and the grave. 
4. Your faithful people, Yahweh, will praise you with songs and honor your Set-apart name. 
5. Your anger lasts a little while, but your kindness lasts for a lifetime. At night we may cry, but when morning comes we will celebrate. 
6. I felt secure and thought, “I'll never be shaken!” 
7. You, Yahweh, were my friend, and you made me strong as a mighty mountain. But when you hid your face, I was crushed. 
8. I prayed to you, Lord, and in my prayer I said, 
9. “What tov {good} will it do you if I am in the grave? Once I have turned to dust, how can I praise you or tell how loyal you are? 
10. Have pity, Yahweh! Help!” 
11. You have turned my sorrow into dancing for me. No longer am I sad and wearing sackcloth. 
12. I thank you from my heart, and I will never stop singing your praises, my Ab-ba Yahweh.


Tehillim Berakah (After) 


Leader: BA-RUKH ATAH YAHWEH ABBA MELEKH HA-OLAM, ASHER QID’SHA-NU  B'MITZ'VO- TAV, V'TVI-VA NU SHAR ET TEHILLIM
  
Congregation: praise or You, Yahweh our Father, Sovereign of the universe, who has set- part us 
By His word, and instructed us to sing Tehillim. 


Song


Praise and Worship Song:                                                                                                    




Berakah and reading of the Mishle: words of wisdom (and after)                                                                                                


Leader: Ba-rukh a-tah Yahweh Ab-ba me-lekh ha-o-lam, a-sher ba-char bin’vi-im to-vim Va-rat-Congrgation: praise or you, Yahweh our Father, Sovereign of the universe, who selected tov (good) prophets, delighting in their words which were spoken truthfully.


A Song:


Torah Berakah (Before)


Leader: Bar’chu et Yahweh Ham’vorach Baruch Yahweh Ham’vorach l’olam  va’ed Baruch Atah Yahweh sadday melech  ha’olam  Asher bachar  banu mikol ha’amim V’natan lanu et Torato Baruch Atah Yahweh notein haTorah


Congregation: Praise the One to whom our praise is due! Praised be the One to whom our praise is due, now and forever! We praise You, Yahweh All-Mighty, Sovereign of the universe: You have called us to Your service by giving us the Torah. We praise You, Yahweh, Giver of the Torah.


The instructions of Shavuot 


Vayyiqra 23: 15-22


15 ‘And from the morrow after the Shabbath, from the yom that you brought the sheaf of the wave offering, you shall count for yourselves: seven completed Shabbaths. 16 ‘Until the morrow after the seventh Shabbath you count fifty yomim, then you shall bring a new grain offering to יהוה. 17 ‘Bring from your dwellings for a wave offering two loaves of bread, of two-tenths of an ĕphah of fine flour they are, baked with leaven, first-fruits to יהוה. 18 ‘And besides the bread, you shall bring seven lambs a year old, perfect ones, and one young bull and two rams. They are an ascending offering to יהוה, with their grain offering and their drink offerings, an offering made by fire for a sweet fragrance to יהוה. 19 ‘And you shall offer one male goat as a sin offering, and two male lambs a year old, as a slaughter of shalom (peace) offerings. 20 ‘And the kohen shall wave them, besides the bread of the first-fruits, as a wave offering before יהוה, besides the two lambs. They are set-apart to יהוה for the kohen. 21 ‘And on this same yom you shall proclaim a set-apart gathering for yourselves, you do no servile work on it – a Torah forever in all your dwellings throughout your generations.  22 ‘And when you reap the harvest of your land do not completely reap the corners of your field when you reap, and do not gather any gleaning from your harvest. Leave them for the poor and for the stranger. I am יהוה your shadday.’ ”
Torah Berakah (After)        
Leader:  Baruch Atah Yahweh shadday melech ha’olam Asher natan lanu Torat Emet V’chayei olam nata b’tocheinu Baruch Atah Yahweh notein haTorah
Congregation: We praise You, Yahweh All-Mighty, Sovereign of the Universe:                                                           You have given us a Torah of truth, implanting within us eternal life.
We praise You, Yahweh, Giver of the Torah.
Lunch 
Closing 0f Shavuot:
Shema:
Closing Prayer: Tehillim 85, 84
1Yahweh, You shall take pleasure in Your land; You shall turn back the captivity of Ya‛aqoḇ.
2You shall take away the crookedness of Your people; You shall cover all their sin. Selah.
3You shall withdraw all Your wrath; You shall turn from Your fierce displeasure.
4Turn back to us, O Yahweh of our deliverance, And cause Your vexation toward us to cease.
5Would You be enraged with us forever? Would You draw out Your displeasure From generation to generation? 
6Would You not revive us again, For Your people to rejoice in You? 
7Show us Your loving-commitment, O Yahweh, And give us Your deliverance. 
8Let me hear what Ab-ba Yahweh speaks, For He speaks peace to His people And to His lovingly-committed ones; And let them not turn again to folly.
9Truly, His deliverance is near to those who fear Him, for esteem to dwell in our land. 
10-commitment and truth shall meet, Righteousness and peace shall kiss. 
11Truth sprouts forth from the arets, and righteousness looks down from shamayim, 
12Indeed, Yahweh gives what is tov, and our land yields its increase. 
13Righteousness goes before Him, And prepares a way for His footsteps.
Tehillim 84
1How lovely are Your dwelling places, O Yahweh of hosts!
2My being has longed, and even fainted, For the courts of Yahweh My heart and my flesh cry out for Yahweh  
3Even the sparrow has found a home, And the swallow a nest for herself, Where she has put her young ones – Your slaughter-places, O Yahweh of hosts, My Sovereign and my Ab-ba. 
4Baruk are those who dwell in Your house, They are ever praising You. Selah. 
5Baruk is the man whose strength is in You, Your Highways are in their heart. 
6Passing through the valley of weeping, They make it a fountain; The Teacher also covers it with berakah. 
7They go from strength to strength, Appearing before יהוה in Tsiyon. 
8O יהוה Abba of hosts, hear my prayer; Give ear, O Yahweh of Ya‛aqoḇ! Selah. 
9O Yahweh, see our shield, And look upon the face of Your anointed. 
10For a yom in Your courts Is better than a thousand yomim. I have chosen rather to be a doorkeeper In the House of my Yahweh, Than to dwell in the tents of the wrong. 
11For Yahweh is a sun and a shield; Yahweh gives favour and esteem; He withholds no tov matter From those who walk blamelessly. 
12 OYahweh of hosts, Baruk is the man who trusts in You!


Yahweh Berakah {Bessing} Leader: Yahweh spoke to Mosheh saying speak to Aaron saying speak to the children of Yisra’Yah and this is what you shall say to them
Yish-va-re-ch’cha Yahweh va’yish’ma’re-cha.Ya-eir Yahweh pa-nav ei-le-cha vi-chu-ne-cha.
Yis-sa Yahweh pa-nav ei-le-cha v’ya-seim l’cha shalom.
Congregation: Yahweh barak you and keep you; Yahweh make His face shine upon you and be tov to you; Yahweh lift up His countenance upon you and give you Shalom.
YOM TERUAH - THE FEAST OF TRUMPETS
Shalom aleichem {peace be upon you} my Brothers and Sisters  
Welcome to the Hikal (Temple) of יהוה and the Celebration, Yom Teruah (Feast of Trumpets).
This is another yom (day) that Yahweh our Ab-ba has given us; we are here to mark another moment of life, it is a time that we all looked forward to. To give honor and esteem to Yahweh our Ab-ba. Let us clap our hands giving Yahweh thanks for this occasion. 
Wayyiqra {Lev 23:23-25        
23And יהוה spoke to Mosheh, {Moses} saying,
24Speak to the children of Yisra’Yah, saying, ‘In the seventh new month, on the first yom (day) of the new month, you have a rest, a remembrance of Teru‛ah, (blowing Trumpets)
25‘You do no servile (customary) work, and you shall bring an offering made by fire to יהוה.’ ”


Today we are here to celebrate this custom has the Yisra’lites did 
 
The National Anthem: Yah’maica (Jamaica) 


The National Anthem: Yisra’Yah (Israel)                                                                       


THE SHEMA:
SHIMA YISRA’YAH, YAHWEH SHADDAY, YAHWEH ECHAD BARUCKH SHEM KH’VOD MAL’CHU-TO LO-LAM VA-ED 


Leader: 
Debarim (Deut 6:4-9
“Hear, O Yisra’Yah: יהוה All-Mighty, יהוה is one!
“And you shall love יהוה your All-Mighty with all your heart, and with all your being, and with all your might.
“And these Words which I am commanding you hayom {today} shall be in your heart,
And you shall impress them upon your children, and shall speak of them when you sit in your house, and when you walk by the way, and when you lie down, and when you rise up, and shall bind them as a sign on your hand, and they shall be as frontlets between your eyes.
“And you shall write them on the doorposts of your house and on your gates.
Debarim (Deut 11:13-21
‘And it shall be that if you diligently obey My commands which I command you   hayom {today}, to love יהוה your Ab-ba and to serve Him with all your heart and with all your being,
Then I shall give you the rain for your land in its season, the early rain and the latter rain, and you shall gather in your grain, and your new wine, and your oil.
‘And I shall give grass in your fields for your livestock, and you shall eat and be satisfied.
‘Guard yourselves, lest your heart be deceived, and you turn aside and serve other mighty ones and bow down to them.
‘Then the displeasure of יהוה shall burn against you, and He shall shut up the shamayim {heaven}, and there be no rain, and the lands not give its increase. And you shall perish quickly from the tov {good} land which יהוה is giving you.
‘And you shall lay up these words of Mine in your heart and in your being, and shall bind them as a sign on your hand, and they shall be as frontlets between your eyes.
‘And you shall teach them to your children, speaking of them when you sit in your house, and when you walk by the way, and when you lie down, and when you rise up.
And shall write them on the doorposts of your house and on your gates,
So that your Chai {life} and the Chai {life} of your children are increased on the soil of which יהוה swore to your fathers to give them, as the yomim {days} of the shamayim {heavens} on the erets {earth}.
Bemidbar (Num 15:37-41)
And יהוה spoke to Mosheh, saying,
“Speak to the children of Yisra’Yah, and you shall say to them to make tzitzit (fringes) on the corners of their garments
Throughout their generations, and to put a blue cord in the tzitzit of the corners.
“And it shall be to you for a tzitzit, and you shall see it, and shall remember all the commands of יהוה and shall do them, and  not search after your own heart and your own eyes after which you went whoring,
So that you remember, and shall do all My commands, and be set-apart unto your Ab-ba.
“I am יהוה Your Ab-ba, who brought you out of the land of Mitsrayim {Egypt}, to be your Ab-ba. I am יהוה Your Ab-ba.”
   
Opening Berakah (Blessing)


Leader: BA-RUKH A-TAH YAHWEH SHADDAY HAME-VORACH BA-RUCH YAHWEH HAME VORACH LE-GNO-LAM VAED                                                                                 
Congregation: Praise are You, Yahweh All-Mighty, Sovereign of the universe, who formest light and creates darkness, who makest peace and creates all things.


Leader: BA-RUKH A-TAH YAHWEH SHADDAY ME-KADEISH HA-YOM TERUAH VE’YOM TERUAH KAD’SHKHA A’AHAVAH UV’RETZON HIN’CHOL’TONU.
Congregation: Praise are You Yahweh All-Mighty, who set-apart the yom (day) of Trumpets and has willingly and lovingly given us your set-apart day of Trumpets for an inheritance.


PRAYER FOR CONGREGATION AND COUNTRY 
Leader: Thou, who art the source of all berakah, be with this congregation and with all its members, their families and their households, prosper them in their various callings and occupations, help them in their needs, and guide them in their difficulties. Hear the prayers of all who worship here this morning, comfort the sorrowing and cheer the silent sufferer. Barak those who contribute to its strength. Reward with the simchah (joy) of tov’ness the charitable and the amanahful (merciful) who aid the poor, care for the sick, teach the ignorant, and extend a helping hand to those who have lost their way in the world.


Congregation: Fervently we invoke Thy berakah upon our country and our nation. Guard them, O Yahweh, from calamity and injury; suffer not their adversaries to triumph over them, but let the honor of a just, and righteous people who have the fear of Yahweh increase from age to age. Enlighten with thy wisdom and sustain with thy power those whom the people have set in authority, the Prime minister, his counselors, and advisers, the judges, law-givers and executives, and all who are entrusted with our safety and with the guardianship of our rights and our liberties. May shalom and tov’will obtain among all the inhabitants of our land; may Yahweh truth spread its berakah among us and exalt our nation in righteousness. Praise Yahweh.                                                                               


Song: 3                                 


Berakah and the singing of Tehillim:  
Leader: Ba-rukh a-tah Yahweh shadday   me-lekh ha-o-lam,   a-sher  qid'sha-nu b'mitz'vo-tav, v'tzi-va nu shar et Te-hi-llim                            


Congregation: praise are You, Yahweh All-Mighty, Sovereign  of the universe, who has set-apart us by His Word, and instructed us to sing Tehillim.


                                      The Tehillims
                                                               (We read alternately)
 
Tehillim 80 1Give ear, O Shepherd of Yisra’’Yah, Who leads Yosĕph like a flock; Who dwells between the keruḇim, shine forth!
2Before Ephrayim, Binyamin, and Menashsheh, Stir up Your might, and come and save us!
3Cause us to turn back, O יהוה, and cause Your face to shine, that we might be saved!
4O יהוה Aba of hosts, How long shall You be wroth against the prayer of Your people?
5You have caused them to eat the bread of tears, and have caused them to drink with tears, a third time.
6You have made us a strife to our neighbours, and our enemies laugh among themselves.
7Turn us back, O Aba of hosts, And cause Your face to shine, That we might be saved!
8You brought a vine out of Mitsrayim; You drove out the nations, and planted it.
9You cleared a place for it, and caused it to take deep root, and it filled the land.
10Hills were covered with its shadow, and the mighty cedars with its twigs.
11She spread her branches to the Sea, and her shoots to the River.
12Why have You broken down her hedges, So that every passer-by plucked her fruit?
13The boar out of the forest ravages it, and the wild beast of the field devours it.
14Return, we beg You, O Aba of hosts; Look down from hashamayim (heaven), and see, And visit this vine,
15And the stock which Your right hand has planted, and the Son whom You made strong for Yourself.
16It is burned with fire, it is cut down; they perish at the rebuke of Your face.
17Let Your hand be upon the One at Your right hand, Upon the Son of Aḏam whom You made strong for Yourself,
18And we shall not backslide from You. Revive us, and let us call upon Your Name.
19Turn us back, O יהוה Aba of hosts, And cause Your face to shine, that we might be saved!


Tehillim 81


11Shout for simchah (joy) to יהוה our strength; Raise a shout to the Aba of Ya‛aqoḇ.
2Lift up a song and beat the tambourine, the pleasant lyre and with the harp.
3Blow a shophar in the New Moon, in the covering for the yom (day) of our festival.
4For this is a Torah (law) for Yisra’Yah, And a right-ruling of the Aba of Ya‛aqoḇ.
5He appointed it in Yahosĕph for a witness, When He went throughout the land of Mitsrayim; I heard a language that I did not know.
6He says, “I removed his shoulder from the burden; His hands were freed from the baskets.
7“You called in distress, and I rescued you; I answered you in the covering of thunder; I proved you at the waters of Meriḇah. Selah.
8Hear, O My people, and let Me warn you, O Yisra’Yah, if you would listen to Me!”
9“Let there be no strange mighty one among you, and do not bow down to a foreign mighty one.
10I am יהוה your Aba, Who brought you out of the land of Mitsrayim; Open your mouth wide, and I fill it.”
11“But My people did not listen to My voice, And Yisra’Yah would not submit to Me.
12So I gave them over to their own stubborn heart, To walk in their own counsels.”
13“O, if My people had listened to Me, Yisra’Yah would walk in My ways,
14I would subdue their enemies at once, and turn My hand against their adversaries!”
15Those who hate יהוה would cringe before Him; and their time of punishment be forever.
16He would feed them with the finest of wheat; and with honey from the rock I would satisfy you.
Tehillim 83
1 O יהוה, do not remain silent! Do not be speechless, and do not be still, O יהוה!
2For look, Your enemies make an uproar, And those hating You have lifted up their head.
3They craftily plot against Your people, And conspire against Your treasured ones.
4They have said, “Come, and let us wipe them out as a nation, and let the name of Yisra’’Yah be remembered no more.”
5For they have conspired together with one heart; they have made a covenant against You –
6The tents of Eḏom and the Yishma‛ĕlites, Mo’aḇ and the Haḡarites,
7Geḇal, and Ammon, and Amalĕq, Philistia with the inhabitants of Tsor,
8Ashshur also has joined with them, They have helped the children of Lot. Selah.
9Do to them as to Miḏyan, As to Sisera, As to Yaḇin at the wadi Qishon,
10Who perished at Ěndor, who became as dung for the ground.
11Make their nobles like Orĕḇ and like Ze’ĕḇ, and all their princes like Zeḇaḥ and Tsalmunna,
12Who have said, “Let us take possession of the pastures of יהוה for ourselves.”
13 O my Aba, make them as whirling dust, As stubble before the wind!
14 As a fire consumes a forest, and as a flame sets mountains on fire,
15So pursue them with Your whirlwind, And frighten them with Your storm.
16Fill their faces with shame, And let them seek Your Name,O יהוה.
17Let them be ashamed and alarmed forever; and let them become abashed and perish,
18 And let them know that You, Whose Name is יהוה, You alone are the Most High over all the earth.


Tehillim 84


1How lovely are Your dwelling places, O יהוה of hosts!
2My being has longed, and even fainted, for the courts of יהוה; My heart and my flesh cry out for the living יהוה.
3Even the sparrow has found a home, and the swallow a nest for herself, Where she has put her young ones – Your slaughter-places, O יהוה of hosts, My Sovereign and my Aba.
4Barak (Blessed) are those who dwell in Your house, They are ever praising You. Selah.
5Barak (Blessed) is the man whose strength is in You, Your Highways are in their heart.
6Passing through the valley of weeping, They make it a fountain; The Teacher also covers it with berakah (blessings).
7They go from strength to strength, appearing before יהוה in Tsiyon.
8 O Yah יהוה of hosts, hear my prayer; Give ear, O יהוה of Ya‛aqoḇ! Selah.
9 O יהוה, see our shield, And look upon the face of Your anointed.
10For a yom (day) in Your courts Is better than a thousand yom (days). I have chosen rather to be a doorkeeper In the House of יהוה, Than to dwell in the tents of the wrong.
11For יהוה Shadday is a sun and a shield; יהוה gives favour and esteem; He withholds no tov (good) matter From those who walk blamelessly.
12 O יהוה of hosts, Barak (Blessed) is the man who trusts in You!


Tehillim 85


1יהוה, You shall take pleasure in Your land; You shall turn back the captivity of Ya‛aqoḇ.
2You shall take away the crookedness of Your people; You shall cover all their sin. Selah.
3You shall withdraw all Your wrath; You shall turn from Your fierce displeasure.
4Turn back to us, O יהוה of our yesha (deliverance), And cause Your vexation toward us to cease. 
5Would You be enraged with us forever? Would You draw out Your displeasure From generation to generation?
6Would You not revive us again, For Your people to rejoice in You?
7Show us Your loving-commitment, O יהוה, And give us Your yesha (deliverance).
8Let me hear what יהוה speaks, For He speaks peace to His people and to His lovingly-committed ones; and let them not turn again to folly.
9Truly, His yesha (deliverance) is near to those who fear Him, For esteem to dwell in our land.
10Loving-commitment and truth shall meet, Righteousness and peace shall kiss.
11Truth sprouts forth from the earth, and righteousness looks down from heaven,
12Indeed, יהוה gives what is tov (good), And our land yields its increase.
13Righteousness goes before Him, and prepares a way for His footsteps.


Tehillim 86


1Incline Your ear, O יהוה, Answer me, for I am poor and needy.
2Guard my being, for I am lovingly-committed; You are my Aba; Save Your servant who is trusting in You!
3Show favour to me, O יהוה, For I cry to You all yom (day) long.
4Bring simchah (joy) to the being of Your servant, For to You, O יהוה, I lift up my being.
5For You, יהוה, are tov (good), and ready to forgive, And great in loving-commitment to all those who call upon You.
6Give ear, O יהוה, to my prayer; And listen to the voice of my pleadings.
7In the yom (day) of my distress I call upon You, For You answer me.
8There is none like You among the mighty ones, O יהוה; And like Your works there are none.
9Let all nations You have made Come and bow themselves before You, O יהוה, And give esteem to Your Name.
10For You are great, and are doing wonders; You are יהוה, You alone.
11Teach me Your way, O יהוה; Let me walk in Your truth; Unite my heart to fear Your Name.
12I praise You, O יהוה my Aba, with all my heart, And I esteem Your Name forever.
13For Your loving-commitment is great toward me, And You have rescue my being From the depths of She’ol.
14O יהוה, the proud have risen against me, And a band of dreaded men have sought my life, And have not set You before them.
15But You, O יהוה, Are a compassionate Aba and showing favour, Patient and great in loving-commitment and truth.
16Turn to me, and show favour to me! Give Your strength to Your servant, And save the son of Your female servant.
17Show me a sign for good, And let those hating me see it and be ashamed, For You, יהוה, have helped me and comforted me.


Tehillim 89


1I sing of the loving-commitment of יהוה forever; with my mouth I make known Your trustworthiness To all generations.
2For I said, “Loving-commitment is built up forever; You establish Your trustworthiness in the hashamayim (heavens).”
3You said, “I have made a covenant with My chosen, I have sworn to My servant Dawiḏ:
4I establish your seed forever, And shall build up your throne to all generations.’ ” Selah.
5And the hashamayims (heavens) praise Your wonders, O יהוה, Your trustworthiness, too, In the assembly of the set-apart ones.
6For who in the hashamayims is comparable to יהוה? Who among the sons of the mighty is like יהוה?
7 יהוה is greatly feared In the company of the set-apart ones, And awesome above all those around Him.
8O יהוה Aba of hosts, Who is mighty like You, O Yah? And Your trustworthiness is all around You.
9You rule the swelling of the sea; when its waves rise, You still them.
10You have broken Rahaḇ in pieces, as one who is slain; You have scattered Your enemies With the arm of Your strength.
11The hashamayim are Yours, The erets (earth) also is Yours; The world and all that fills it. You have founded them.
12North and south – You have created them; Taḇor and Ḥermon rejoice in Your Name.
13You have a mighty arm, Your hand is strong, Your right hand exalted.
14Righteousness and right-ruling are the foundation of Your throne; Loving-commitment and truth go before Your face.
15Barak (Blessed) are the people Who know the sounding! They walk, O יהוה, in the light of Your face.
16In Your Name they rejoice all yom (day) long, And they are exalted in Your righteousness.
17For You are the comeliness of their strength, And by Your tov (good) pleasure our horn is exalted.
18For יהוה is our shield, And the Set-apart One of Yisra’Yah is our Sovereign.
19Then You spoke in a vision to Your lovingly-committed one, And You said, “I have given help to one who is mighty, I have exalted one chosen from the people.
20“I have found My servant Dawiḏ; With My set-apart oil I anointed him,
21With whom My hand is established; My arm also strengthens him.”
22“No enemy subjects him to tribute, and no son of wickedness afflicts him.
23And I shall beat down His adversaries before his face, and plague those who hate him.”
24“But My trustworthiness and My loving-commitment are with him, And in My Name his horn is exalted.
25And I shall set his hand on the sea, and his right hand on the rivers.”
26“He calls out to Me, ‘You are my Aba (Father), My Shadday, and the rock of my yasha (deliverance).’
27I also appoint him first-born, Highest of the sovereigns of the earth.”
28“I guard My loving-commitment for him forever, And My berith (covenant) is steadfast with him.
29And I shall establish his seed forever, and his throne as the yomim (days) of the hashamayim (heavens).”
30“If his sons forsake My Torah and do not walk in My right-rulings,
31If they profane My Torah And do not guard My commands,”
32“Then I shall visit their transgression with the rod, and their crookedness with flogging.
33But My loving-commitment I do not take away from him, Nor be false to My trustworthiness.”
34“I shall not profane My berith, Neither would I change what has gone out from My lips.
35Once I have sworn by My set-apartness, I do not lie to Dawiḏ:"
36“His seed shall be forever, and his throne as the sun before Me;
37“Like the moon, it is established forever, and the witness in the hashamayim (heaven) is steadfast.” Selah.
38Yet You have rejected and spurned, You have been wroth with Your anointed.
39You have disowned the covenant of Your servant, You have defiled his diadem in the dust.
40You have broken down all his hedges, You have brought his strongholds to ruin.
41All who pass by the way plunder him; He is a reproach to his neighbours.
42You have exalted the right hand of his adversaries, You have made all his enemies rejoice.
43Moreover You have turned back the edge of his sword, And have not made him stand in battle.
44You have brought an end to his splendour, And have hurled his throne to the ground.
45You have shortened the yomim (days) of his youth, You have covered him with shame. Selah.
46How long, O יהוה, would You be hidden? Would Your wrath burn like fire forever?
47Please remember how short my time is; Why should you have created all the sons of men for naught?
48What man would live and not see death? Who rescues his life from the power of She’ol? Selah.
49יהוה, where are Your former loving-commitments, Which You swore to Dawiḏ in Your trustworthiness?
50 יהוה, remember the reproach of Your servants, That I have borne in my bosom – Of all the many peoples,
51With which Your enemies have reproached, O יהוה, With which they have reproached the footsteps of Your anointed.
52 (Blessed) be יהוה forever! So let it be Allelu’Yah.’


Tehillim Berakah (After): 


Leader: Ba-rukh a-tah Yahweh Abba me-lekh ha-o-lam,   a-sher  qid'sha-nu b'mitz'vo-tav, v'tzi-va nu shar et Te-hi-llim                            


Congregation: praise are You, Yahweh our Abba, Sovereign of the universe, who has set-apart us by His Word, and instructed us to sing Tehillim.


Song:


Berakah and reading of the Mishle: (and after)


Leader: Ba-rukh a-tah Yahweh Ab-ba me-lekh ha-o-lam, a-sher ba-char bin’vi-im to-vim Vra-tzah v’div’rei-hem Ha-nee-ma-rim bee-met.   


Congregation: Praise are you, Yahweh our Father, Sovereign of the universe, who selected tov (good) prophets, delighting in their words which were spoken truthfully.
                                                            
Song: A solo


Reading and study of the Torah:


Torah Berakah (Before)


Leader: Baruch Yahweh Ham’vorach l’olam  va’ed Baruch Atah Yahweh sadday melech  ha’olam Asher bachar  banu mikol ha’amim V’natan lanu et Torato Baruch Atah Yahweh notein haTorah


Congregation: Praise the One to whom our praise is due! Praised be the One to whom our praise is due, now and forever! We praise You, Yahweh All-Mighty, Sovereign of the universe: You have called us to Your service by giving us the Torah. We praise You, Yahweh, Giver of the Torah.


THE ORIGINAL MEANING OF YOM TERUAH - TRUMPETS


Leader: Vayykra {Lev 23:23-27} maps out Yahweh’s mitzvah (commandments) concerning this festival:“Then Yahweh spoke to Mosheh, saying, ‘Speak to the children of Yisra’Yah, saying: “In the seventh month, on the first yom (day) of the month, you shall have a shabbath-rest, a memorial of blowing of trumpets, a set-apart convocation. You shall do no customary work on it; and you shall offer an offering made by fire to Yahweh.'”
The only other reference to this festival in the Torah is Bemidbar {Num 29-1}. By examining the text in wayyqra {Lev23}, we note that this yom was to be a memorial with blowing of trumpets. The word “memorial” indicates that the event to be remembered had taken place prior to this ordinance.
The Scriptures Shemoth (Ex 19:13) points to one outstanding event—connected to the blowing of trumpets—that required memorializing.
“When the ram’s horn sounds a long blast, they shall come up to the mountain. So it came about on the third yom (day), when it was morning, that there were thunder and lightning flashes and a thick cloud upon the mountain and a very loud trumpet sound, so that all the people who were in the camp trembled. And Mosheh brought the people out of the camp to meet Yahweh and they stood at the foot of the mountain. Now Mount Sinai was all in smoke because Yahweh descended upon it in fire; and its smoke ascended like the smoke of a furnace, and the whole mountain quaked violently. When the sound of the trumpet grew louder and louder, Mosheh spoke and Yahweh answered him with thunder.
In Shemoth chapters 19 and 20 we read the account of Yahweh’s appearance on Mount Sinai and the initial giving of the Ten mitzvah (Commandments). Shemoth {Ex19:5} depicts Yahweh inviting the children of Yisra’Yah into a berith (covenant): the Mosheic Berith. In a spectacular revelation, Yahweh manifested His presence in the smoke and fire on Mount Sinai—as He came to berith with His people amidst the sound of a trumpet that caused the people to tremble. They promised to do everything that Yahweh commanded.
This cataclysmic event was to be stamped indelibly upon the memory of the people of Yisra’Yah. Every year, at the Feast of Trumpets, those same-sounding trumpet blasts reminded Yisra’Yah that they were a people under berith; a nation who had accepted the responsibilities of being Yahweh’s people. By doing so, the nation also prepared herself for the Yom Kippur (Day of Atonement), eight yomim (days) later, when they would repent and find atonement for all they had done to break this berith.
Torah Berakah (After)
Leader:  Baruch Atah Yahweh shadday melech ha’olam
Asher natan lanu Torat Emet V’chayei olam nata b’tocheinu Baruch Atah Yahweh notein haTorah
Congregation: We praise You, Yahweh All-Mighty, Sovereign of the Universe: You have given us a Torah of truth, implanting within us eternal life.
We praise You, Yahweh, Giver of the Torah.
Closing prayer:
Lunch break:


YOM KIPPUR DAY OF ATONEMENT MORNING SERVICE
Yom Kippur Barukheem haba’im b’shem Yahweh Shalam halachem                                                                                                   Day Atonement Welcome in the Name of Yahweh Peace be upon you 
Wayyiqra (Leviticus) 23: 26 And יהוה spoke to Mosheh, saying,
27On the tenth day of this seventh new moon is Yom Kippurim. It shall be a set-apart gathering for you. And you shall afflict your beings, and shall bring an offering made by fire to יהוה.
28“And you do no work on that same day, for it is Yom Kippurim (a day of atonement) to make atonement for you before יהוה your Ab-ba.
29“For any being who is not afflicted on that same day, he shall be cut off from his people.
30“And any being who does any work on that same day, that being I shall destroy from the midst of his people.
31“You do no work – a Torah (law) forever throughout your generations in all your dwellings.
32‘It is a Sabbath of rest to you, and you shall afflict your beings. On the ninth day of the new moon in the evening, from evening to evening, you observe your Sabbath.”


Leader: Hayom (Today) we are here to celebrate this custom as the forefathers did, we give Yahweh Most High, tanks for this occasion.


Let us unite hands and heart in love and unity as we celebrate this festival.


Leader: BA-RUKH A-TAH YAHWEH SHADDAY MEKADEISH- HA-YOM-KIPPUR VE’YOM-KIPPUR  KAD’SHKHA A’AHAVAH UV’RETZON HIN’CHOL’TONU.


Congregation: Praise are You Yahweh All-mighty, who Set-Apart the Day of Atonement and has willingly and lovingly given us your Set-Apart Day for an inheritance.


The National Anthem: Yah’maica (Jamaica)
 
The National Anthem: Yisra’Yah (Israel)                                                                                                                                                
THE SIMAH:


SHIMA YISRA’YAH, YAHWEH SHADDAY, YAHWEH ECHAD BARUCKH SHEM KH’VOD MAL’CHU-TO LO-LAM VA-ED


Leader: Debarim (Deut 6:4-9


“Hear, O Yisra’Yah: יהוה All-Mighty, יהוה is one!
“And you shall love יהוה your All-Mighty with all your heart, and with all your being, and with all your might.
“And these Words which I am commanding you hayom {today} shall be in your heart,
And you shall impress them upon your children, and shall speak of them when you sit in your house, and when you walk by the way, and when you lie down, and when you rise up, 8. And shall bind them as a sign on your hand, and they shall be as frontlets between your eyes.
“And you shall write them on the doorposts of your house and on your gates.
Debarim (Deut 11:13-21
‘And it shall be that if you diligently obey My commands which I command you   hayom {today}, to love יהוה your Ab-ba and to serve Him with all your heart and with all your being,
Then I shall give you the rain for your land in its season, the early rain and the latter rain, and you shall gather in your grain, and your new wine, and your oil.
‘And I shall give grass in your fields for your livestock, and you shall eat and be satisfied.
‘Guard yourselves, lest your heart be deceived, and you turn aside and serve other mighty ones and bow down to them.
‘Then the displeasure of יהוה shall burn against you, and He shall shut up the shamayim {heaven}, and there be no rain, and the lands not give its increase. And you shall perish quickly from the tov {good} land which יהוה is giving you.
‘And you shall lay up these words of Mine in your heart and in your being, and shall bind them as a sign on your hand, and they shall be as frontlets between your eyes.
‘And you shall teach them to your children, speaking of them when you sit in your house, and when you walk by the way, and when you lie down, and when you rise up.
And shall write them on the doorposts of your house and on your gates,
So that your Chai {life} and the Chai {life} of your children are increased on the soil of which יהוה swore to your fathers to give them, as the yomim {days} of the shamayim {heavens} on the erets {earth}.
Bemidbar (Num 15:37-41)
And יהוה spoke to Mosheh, saying,
“Speak to the children of Yisra’Yah, and you shall say to them to make tzitzit (fringes) on the corners of their garments
Throughout their generations, and to put a blue cord in the tzitzit of the corners.
“And it shall be to you for a tzitzit, and you shall see it, and shall remember all the commands of יהוה and shall do them, and not search after your own heart and your own eyes after which you went whoring,
So that you remember, and shall do all My commands, and be set-apart unto your Ab-ba.
“I am יהוה Your Ab-ba, who brought you out of the land of Mitsrayim {Egypt}, to be your Ab-ba. I am יהוה Your Ab-ba.”


KEDUSHAH: Prayer


Leader: Now, therefore, O Yahweh our All-mighty, impose Your awe upon all Your works, and Your dread upon all that You hast created, that all works may reverence You and all creatures prostrate themselves before You, that they may all form a single band to do Your will with a perfect heart, even as we know, O Yahweh our Abba that dominion is thine, strength is in Your hand, and might in Your right hand, and that Your Name is to be feared above all that You hast created. Give then favor, unto Your people, praise to them that reverence You, tov (good) hope to them that seek You, and free speech to them that wait for You, simchah (joy) to Your land, gladness to Thy city, a flourishing horn unto Dawid Thy servant, and a clear shining light unto the son of Yesse (Jesse), Your anointed, speedily in Our yomim (days). Then shall the just also see and be glad, and the upright shall exult, and the pious triumphantly rejoice, while iniquity shall close her mouth, and all wickedness shall be wholly consumed like smoke, when You makes the dominion of tyranny to pass away from the earth.


Congregation: And You, O Yahweh, our Abba shall speedily reign over all Your works on Mount Zion, the dwelling place of Your splendor, and in Yahusalem, Your set-apart city, as it is written in Your Set-apart Words, Yahweh shall reign forever, Your Mighty One, O Zion, unto all generations Hallilu’Yah”. Set-apart are You, and awesome is Your Name, and there is no Yahweh beside You, as it is written, and the Most High is exalted in judgment, and the Set-apart Abba is Separated in righteousness. Barak are You, O Yahweh, the sovereign ruler.
You has chosen us from all people; You has love us and taken pleasure in us, and has exalted us above all tongues; Thou has separated us by Your mitzvah and brought us near unto Your service, O our sovereign, and called us by Your great and Set-apart Name Hallilu’Yah.


Teshuvah  


The Hebrew term teshuvah is used to refer to "repentance". This implies that transgression and sin are the natural and inevitable consequence of man's straying from Yahweh and His Torah (law), and that it is man's destiny and duty to be with Yahweh. 
 
Congregation Prayer         


Songs:


Berakah and the singing of Tehillim   


Leader: Ba-rukh a-tah Yahweh shadday   me-lekh ha-o-lam,   a-sher  qid'sha-nu b'mitz'vo-tav, v'tzi-va nu shar et Te-hi-llim                            


Congregation: praise are You, Yahweh All-mighty, King of the universe, who has set-apart us by His Word, and instructed us to sing Tehillim.


The Tehillims Prayer and meditation (We read alternately)


Tehillim (Psalms) 51


1. Show me favour, O יהוה, According to Your loving-commitment; According to the greatness of Your compassion, Blot out my transgressions.
2. Wash me completely from my guilt, And cleanse me from my sin.
3. For I know my transgressions, And my sin is ever before me.
4. Against You, You alone, have I sinned, And done evil in Your eyes; That You might be proven right in Your words; Be clear when You judge.
5. See, I was brought forth in crookedness, And in sin my mother conceived me.
6. See, You have desired truth in the inward parts, And in the hidden part You make me know wisdom.
7. Cleanse me with hyssop, and I am clean; Wash me, and I am whiter than snow.
8. Let me hear joy and gladness, Let the bones You have crushed rejoice.
9. Hide Your face from my sins, And blot out all my crookednesses.
10. Create in me a clean heart, O יהוה, And renew a steadfast spirit within me.
11. Do not cast me away from Your presence, And do not take Your Set-apart Spirit from me.
12. Restore to me the joy of Your deliverance, And uphold me, Noble Spirit!
13. Let me teach transgressors Your ways, So that sinners turn back to You.
14. Deliver me from blood-guilt, O יהוה, Aba of my deliverance, Let my tongue sing aloud of Your righteousness.
15. O יהוה, open my lips, And that my mouth declare Your praise.
16. For You do not desire slaughtering, or I would give it; You do not delight in ascending offering.
17. The slaughterings of יהוה are a broken spirit, A heart broken and crushed, O יהוה, These You do not despise.
18. Do good in Your good pleasure to Tsiyon; Build the walls of Yarushalayim.
19. Then You would delight in slaughterings of righteousness, In ascending offering and complete ascending offering; Then young bulls would be offered on Your slaughter-place.


Tehillim (Psalms) 3


1. O יהוה, how my adversaries have increased! Many are rising up against me.
2. Many are saying of me, “There is no deliverance for him in יהוה.” Selah.
3. But You, O יהוה, are a shield for me, my esteem, and the One lifting up my head.
4. I cried to יהוה with my voice, And He heard me from His set-apart mountain. Selah.
5. I laid down and slept; I awoke, for יהוה sustained me.
6. I am not afraid of ten thousands of people who have set themselves against me all around.
7. Arise, O יהוה; Save me, O my Abba! Because You have stricken all my enemies on the cheek; You have broken the teeth of the wrong.
8. Deliverance belongs to יהוה. Your blessing is on Your people. Selah.


Tehillim (Psalms) 102


1. O יהוה, hear my prayer, And let my cry come to You.
2. Do not hide Your face from me In the yom (day) of my distress; Incline Your ear to me; In the yom I call, answer me speedily.
3. For my yomim (days) are consumed like smoke, and my bones are burned like a hearth.
4. My heart is stricken and withered like grass, for I have forgotten to eat my bread.
5. Because of the sound of my sighing my bones have cleaved to my flesh.
6. I have been like a pelican of the wilderness, I have been like an owl of the desert.
7. I have watched, and I am as a bird alone on the house-top.
8. My enemies reproached me all day long, those who rave against me have sworn against me.
9. For I have eaten ashes like bread, and mixed my drink with tears,
10. Because of Your displeasure and Your wrath; For You have lifted me up And thrown me down.
11. My yomim (days) are like a shadow that lengthens, and I wither away like grass.
12. But You, O יהוה, shall be enthroned forever, And the remembrance of You be to all generations.
13. You Yourself shall arise And have compassion on Tsiyon, For the time to favour her, The appointed time, has come.
14. For Your servants have been pleased with her stones, And they favour her dust.
15. And the nations shall fear the Name of יהוה, and all the sovereigns of the earth Your esteem,
16. For יהוה shall build up Tsiyon, He shall appear in His esteem.
17. He shall turn unto the prayer of the destitute, And He shall not despise their prayer.
18. This is written for a generation to come, so that a people to be created praise Yah.
19. For He looked down from the height of His set-apart place; From Shamayim (heaven) יהוה viewed the earth,
20. To hear the groaning of the prisoner, to release those appointed to death,
21. To declare the Name of יהוה in Tsiyon, And His praise in Yarushalayim,
22. When peoples gather together, and reigns, to serve יהוה.
23. He has humbled my strength in the way; He has shortened my yomim (days).
24. I said, “O my Abba, Do not take me away in the midst of my yomim; Your years are throughout all generations.
25. “You did find the earth of old, and the Shamayim (heavens) are the work of Your hands.
26. They shall perish, but You remain; And all of them grow old like a garment; You change them like a coat, And they are changed.”
27. “But You are the same, And Your years have no end.
28. “The sons of Your servants continue, And their seed is established before You.”


Tehillim (Psalms) 34


1. Aleph I bless יהוה at all times; His praise is continually in my mouth.
2. Bĕt My being makes its boast in יהוה; Let the humble hear and be glad.
3. Gimel Oh, make יהוה great with me, And let us exalt His Name together.
4. Dalet I sought יהוה, and He answered me, and delivered me from all my fears.
5. Hĕ They looked to Him and were lightened, Waw And their faces were not ashamed.
6. Zayin This poor one cried out and יהוה heard him, And saved him out of all his distresses.
7. Ḥet The messenger of יהוה encamps all around those who fear Him, And rescues them.
8. Tet Oh, taste and see that יהוה is tov (good); blessed is the man that takes refuge in Him!
9. Yod. Fear יהוה, you His set-apart ones, for there is no lack to them who fear Him!
10. Kaph Young lions have lacked and been hungry; but those who seek יהוה lack not any tov (good) matter.
11. Lamed Come, you children, listen to me; Let me teach you the fear of יהוה.
12. Mem Who is the man who desires life, Who loves many yomim (days), in order to see tov (good)?
13. Nun Keep your tongue from evil, and your lips from speaking deceit.
14. Sameḵ Turn away from evil and do tov (good); Seek peace, and pursue it.
15. Ayin The eyes of יהוה are on the righteous, And His ears unto their cry.
16. Pĕ The face of יהוה is against evil-doers, To cut off their remembrance from the earth.
17. Tsadi The righteous cried out, and יהוה heard, And delivered them out of all their distresses.
18. Qoph יהוה is near to the broken-hearted, and saves those whose spirit is crushed.
19. Rĕsh Many are the evils of the righteous, But יהוה delivers him out of them all.
20. Shin He is guarding all his bones; Not one of them is broken.
21. Taw Evil does slay the wrong, and those who hate the righteous are guilty.
22. יהוה redeems the lives of His servants, and none of those taking refuge in Him are guilty.


Tehillim (Psalms) (36)


1. Transgression speaks to the wrong within his heart; Fear of יהוה is not before his eyes.
2. For he flatters himself in his own eyes, to find his crookedness to be hated.
3. The words of his mouth are wickedness and deceit; He has ceased to be wise, to do tov (good).
4. He plots wickedness on his bed; He sets himself in a way that is not tov; He does not despise evil.
5. O יהוה, Your loving-commitment is in the Shamayim (heavens), And Your trustworthiness reaches to the clouds.
6. Your righteousness is like the mighty mountains; Your right-rulings are a great deep; O יהוה, You save man and beast.
7. How precious is Your loving-commitment, O יהוה! And the ben (sons) of men take refuge in the shadow of Your wings.
8. They are filled from the fatness of Your house, And You give them drink from the river of Your pleasures.
9. For with You is the fountain of life; In Your light we see light.
10. Draw out Your loving-commitment to those who know You, And Your righteousness to the upright in heart.
11. Let not the foot of pride come against me, And the hand of the wrong drive me away.
12. There the workers of wickedness have fallen; they have been overthrown And have been unable to rise.




Tehillim (Psalms) 37


1. Aleph Do not fret because of evil-doers, Do not be envious of the workers of unrighteousness.
2. For they soon wither like grass, and fade like green plants.
3. Bĕt Trust in יהוה, and do tov (good); Dwell in the earth, and feed on steadfastness.
4. And delight yourself in יהוה, and let Him give you the desires of your heart.
5. Gimel Commit your way to יהוה, And trust in Him, and He does it.
6. And He shall bring forth your righteousness as the light, and your right-ruling as midday.
7. Dalet Rest in יהוה, and wait patiently for Him; Do not fret because of him who prospers in his way, Because of the man doing wicked devices.
8. Hĕ Abstain from displeasure, and forsake wrath; Do not fret, also to do evil.
9. For evil-doers are cut off; But those who wait on יהוה, they shall inherit the earth.
10. Waw Yet a little while and the wrong is no more; And you shall look on his place, But it is not.
11. But the meek ones shall inherit the earth, and delight themselves in plenty of peace.
12. Zayin The wrong plots against the righteous, And gnashes his teeth at him.
13. יהוה laughs at him, for He sees that his yom (day) is coming.
14. Ḥet The wrong have drawn the sword and have bent their bow, To cause the poor and needy to fall, To slay those who walk straightly.
15. Their sword does enter into their own heart, and their bows are broken.
16. Tet Better is the little of the righteous one, than the riches of many wrongdoers.
17. For the arms of the wrongdoers are broken, but יהוה sustains the righteous.
18. Yod יהוה knows the days of the perfect, and their inheritance is forever.
19. They are not ashamed in a time of evil, and in the days of scarcity of food they are satisfied.
20. Kaph But the wrongdoers shall perish; and the enemies of יהוה, Like the splendour of the meadows they vanish, Like smoke they vanish away.
21. Lamed The wrongdoer is borrowing and does not repay, But the righteous one shows favour and gives.
22. For His blessed ones inherit the earth, But those cursed by Him are cut off.
23. Mem The steps of a man are ordered by יהוה, And He delights in his way.
24. Though he falls, he is not cast down, for יהוה is supporting his hand.
25. Nun I have been young, and now I am old; yet I have not seen the righteous forsaken, or his seed begging bread.
26. All yom (day) long he is showing favour and lending; and his seed is for a blessing.
27. Sameḵ Turn away from evil, and do tov (good); and dwell forever.
28. For יהוה loves right-ruling, and does not forsake His lovingly-committed ones; they shall be guarded forever, But the seed of the wrongdoers is cut off.
29. The righteous shall inherit the earth, and dwell in it forever.
30. Pĕ The mouth of the righteous speaks wisdom, and his tongue talks of right-ruling.
31. The Torah of יהוה is in his heart; his steps do not slide.
32. Tsadi The wrong one is watching for the righteous, and is seeking to slay him.
33. יהוה does not leave him in his hand, or let him be declared wrong when he is judged.
34. Qoph Wait on יהוה and guard His way, And He shall exalt you to inherit the earth – When the wrongdoers are cut off, you shall see it.
35. Rĕsh I have seen the wrongdoer in great power, and spreading himself like a native green tree.
36. Yet he passed away, and see, he was not; And I sought him, but he was not found.
37. Shin Watch the perfect, and observe the straight; for the latter end of each is peace.
38. But the transgressors shall be destroyed together; the latter end of the wrong shall be cut off.
39. Taw But the deliverance of the righteous is from יהוה, their strength in time of distress.
40. And יהוה does help them and deliver them; He delivers them from the wrongdoers and saves them, Because they took refuge in Him.


Tehillim (Psalms) 40


1. I waited, waited for יהוה; and He inclined to me, and heard my cry.
2. And He drew me out of the pit of destruction, out of the muddy clay, And He set my feet upon a rock, He is establishing my steps.
3. Then He put a new song in my mouth; Praise to our Elohim; Many do see it and fear, And trust in יהוה.
4. Blessed is that man who has made יהוה his trust, and has not turned to the proud, And those turning aside to falsehood.
5. O יהוה my Abba, many are the wonders Which You have done, and Your purposes toward us; There is no one to compare with You; I declare and speak: They are too many to be numbered.
6. Slaughtering and meal offering You did not desire; You have opened my ears; Ascending offering and sin offering You did not ask for.
7. Then I said, “See, I have come; in the scroll of the book it is prescribed for me.
8. I have delighted to do Your pleasure, O my Abba, And Your Torah is within my heart.”
9. I have proclaimed the tov news of righteousness, in the great assembly; See, I do not restrain my lips, O יהוה, You know.
10. I did not conceal Your righteousness within my heart; I have declared Your trustworthiness and Your deliverance; I did not hide Your loving-commitment and Your truth From the great assembly.
11. Do not withhold Your compassion from me, O יהוה; let Your loving-commitment and Your truth always watch over me.
12. For evils without number have surrounded me; My crookednesses have overtaken me, And I have been unable to see; They became more than the hairs of my head; And my heart has failed me.
13. Be pleased, O יהוה, to deliver me; O יהוה, hasten to help me!
14. Let those who seek to destroy my life be ashamed and abashed altogether; let those who are desiring my evil be driven back and put to shame.
15. Let those who say to me, “Aha, aha!” Be appalled at their own shame.
16. Let all those who seek You Rejoice and be glad in You; Let those who love Your deliverance always say, “יהוה be exalted!”
17. But I am poor and needy; Let יהוה think upon me. You are my help and my deliverer; O my Abba, do not delay!


Songs:


Haftarah Berakah (Before)


Leader: Baruch Atah Yahweh shadday melech ha’olam Asher bachar binvi’im tovim
V’ratza v’divreihem hane’emarim be’emet Baruch Atah Yahweh habocheir baTorah                                        Uv’Moshe avdo uv’Yisra’Yah amo, Uvin’vi’ei ha’emet vatzadek 


Congregation: We praise You, Yahweh All-Mighty, Sovereign of the universe: You have called faithful prophets to speak words of truth.
We praise You, Yahweh, for the revelation of Torah, for Mosheh You servant and Yisra’Yah You people, and for the prophets of truth and righteousness.


Yonah (Jonah) 3:1-4:11


1And the word of יהוה came to Yonah the second time, saying,
2“Arise, go to Ninewĕh, that great city, and proclaim to it the message that I am speaking to you.”
3And Yonah arose and went to Ninewĕh, according to the word of יהוה. Now Ninewĕh was a great city before יהוה, of three day’s journey.
4And Yonah began to go in to the city on the first yom (day’s) walk. And he cried out and said, “Yet forty yomim (days), and Ninewĕh shall be overthrown!”
5And the men of Ninewĕh believed in יהוה, and proclaimed a fast, and put on sackcloth, from the greatest to the least of them.
6And the word reached the sovereign of Ninewĕh, so he arose from his throne and took off his robe, and covered himself with sackcloth and sat in ashes.
7And he proclaimed and said throughout Ninewĕh, “By decree of the sovereign and his nobles: No man or beast, herd or flock, shall taste whatever – let them not eat, let them not even drink water.
8“But let man and beast be covered with sackcloth, and call mightily to יהוה. And let each one turn from his evil way and from the violence that is in his hands.
9“Who knows whether יהוה does turn and relent, and shall turn away from the heat of His displeasure, so that we do not perish?”
10And יהוה saw their works, that they turned from their evil way. And יהוה relented from the evil which He had said He would do to them, and He did not do it.
1But it greatly displeased Yonah, and he was grieved.
2And he prayed to יהוה, and he said, “Please, יהוה, was this not what I said while I was in my own land? This is why I went ahead and fled to Tarshish. For I know that You are an Abba showing favour, and compassionate, patient and of great loving-commitment, and relenting from doing evil.
3“And now, O יהוה, please take my life from me, for it is better for me to die than to live!”
4And יהוה said, “Are you right to be displeased?”
5Then Yonah went out of the city and sat on the east side of the city, and made himself a shelter there, and sat under it in the shade, to see what would become of the city.
6And יהוה All-Mighty appointed a plant and made it come up over Yonah, to be a shade for his head to deliver him from his discomfort. And Yonah greatly rejoiced over the plant.
7But as morning dawned the next yom (day) יהוה appointed a worm which struck the plant so that it withered.
8And it came to be when the sun came up, that יהוה appointed a scorching east wind, and the sun struck on Yonah’s head, so that he grew faint, and asked for his life to die, and said, “It is better for me to die than to live.”
9And יהוה said to Yonah, “Have you rightly become displeased over the plant?” And he said, “I have rightly become displeased, even to death!”
10And יהוה said, “You felt sorry for the plant for which you have not laboured, nor made it grow, which came up in a night and perished in a night.
11“And should I not pardon Ninewĕh, that great city, in which are more than one hundred and twenty thousand beings who have not known their right hand from their left, and much cattle?”
        
Haftarah Berakah (After)


Leader: Baruch Atah Yahweh shadday melech ha’olam
Tzur kol ha’olamim Tzadik b’chol hadorot,
Ha’eil hane’eman ha’omeir v’oseh
Ham’dabeir um’kayeim, Shekol d’varav emet vatzadek
Al haTorah, v’al ha’avodah, v’al han’vi’im  V’al yom ha’Shabbat hazeh Shenatata lanu Yahweh shadday Lik’dusha v’lin’nucha, l’chavod ul’thif’aret Al hakol, Yahweh shadday
Aachnu modem lach um’var’chim otach Yit’barach shim’cha b’fi kol chai Tamid l’olam va’ed
Baruch Atah Yahweh, m’kadeish ha’Shabbat


Congregation: We praise You, Yahweh All-Mighty, Sovereign of the universe, the Rock of all creation, the Righteous One of all generations, the faithful Yahweh whose word is deed, whose every command is just and true. For the Torah, for the privilege of worship, for the prophets, and for this Shabbath yom {day} that You, our Yahweh All-Mighty, have given us to be set-apart and rest, for abundance and honor, we thank and praise You. May Your name be praised for ever by every living being. We praise You, Yahweh All-Mighty, for the shabbath and its sacredness.


Songs


Tehillim (Psalms) 54


1. O יהוה, save me by Your Name, And rightly rule me by Your might.
2. Hear my prayer, O יהוה,; Give ear to the words of my mouth.
3. For strangers have risen up against me, And cruel men have sought after my life; They have not set יהוה, before them. Selah.
4. See, יהוה, is my helper; יהוה is with those who sustain my life.
5. He repays evil to my enemies. Cut them off in Your truth.
6. Voluntarily I slaughter you; I praise Your Name, O יהוה, for it is good.
7. For He has delivered me out of all distress; and my eye has looked upon my enemies.


Tehillim (Psalms) 55


1. Give ear to my prayer, O יהוה, And do not hide Yourself from my plea.
2. Give heed to me, and answer me; I wander and moan in my complaint,
3. Because of the noise of the enemy, Because of the outcry of the wrong; for they bring down wickedness upon me, and in wrath they hate me.
4. My heart is pained within me, and the frights of death have fallen upon me.
5. Fear and trembling have come upon me, and shuddering covers me.
6. And I said, “Who would give me wings like a dove! I would fly away and be at rest.
7. “See, I would wander far off, I would lodge in the wilderness. Selah.
8. “I would hasten my escape from the raging wind and storm.”
9. Confuse, O יהוה, divide their tongues, for I saw violence and strife in the city.
10. Yom (day) and laylah (night) they go around it on its walls; wickedness and trouble are also in the midst of it.
11. Covetings are in its midst; Oppression and deceit do not vanish from its streets.
12. It is not an enemy who reproaches me – That I could bear; nor one who hates me who is making himself great against me – Then I could hide from him.
13. But it was you, a man my equal, my companion and my friend.
14. We took sweet counsel together, and we walked to the House of Elohim in the throng.
15. Let death come upon them; Let them go down into She’ol alive, for evil is in their dwellings, in their midst.
16. I, I call upon יהוה, and יהוה saves me.
17. Evening and morning and at noon I complain and moan, and He hears my voice.
18. He has redeemed my life in peace from the battle against me, for there were many against me.
19. יהוה, even He who sits enthroned from old, does hear and afflict them – Selah – Those with whom there are no changes, those who do not fear יהוה.
20. He has put forth his hands against those who were at peace with him; He has broken his covenant.
21. His mouth was smoother than curds, yet in his heart is fighting; His words were softer than oil, but they were drawn swords.
22. Cast your burden on יהוה, and let Him sustain you; He never allows the righteous to be shaken.
23. For You, O יהוה, do bring them down To the pit of destruction; Men of blood and deceit do not reach  half their yomim (days); but I, I trust in You. 


Tehillim (Psalms) 38


1. O יהוה, do not rebuke me in Your wrath, Nor chastise me in Your hot displeasure!
2. For Your arrows have pierced me, And Your hand comes down on me.
3. There is no soundness in my flesh because of Your rage, Nor peace in my bones because of my sin.
4. For my crookednesses have passed over my head; like a heavy burden, too heavy for me.
5. My wounds have become stinky, festering because of my folly.
6. I have been bent down; I have been bowed down very much; All day long I have gone mourning.
7. For my loins have become filled with burning, and there is no soundness in my flesh.
8. I have become weak and greatly crushed; I howled from the groaning of my heart.
9. יהוה, all my desire is before You; And my sighing has not been hidden from You.
10. My heart is throbbing, my strength has forsaken me; and the light of my eyes also is not with me.
11. My loved ones and my friends stand back from my plague, and my neighbours stand far away.
12. And those seeking my life lay a snare; and those seeking my evil have spoken of destruction, and utter deceit all yom (day) long.
13. But I, as one deaf, do not hear; and as a dumb one who does not open his mouth.
14. I am like a man who does not hear, and who has no rebukes in his mouth.
15. For on You, O יהוה, I have waited; You do answer, O יהוה my Abba.
16. For I said, “Otherwise they would rejoice over me, When my foot slips they would exalt themselves over me.”
17. For I am ready to fall, and my pain is always with me.
18. For I confess my crookedness; I am sorry over my sin.
19. But my enemies are alive; they have become strong; And those hating me falsely are many.
20. And those who repay evil for tov (good), they oppose me, because I follow what is tov (good).
21. Do not forsake me, O יהוה; O my Abba, be not far from me!
22. Hasten to help me, O יהוה, my deliverance!


Tehillim (Psalms) 39


1. I have said,”Let me guard my ways against sinning with my tongue; Let me guard my mouth with a muzzle, while the wrongdoer is before me.”
2. I became dumb, keeping still; I was silent, from tov (good); and my pain was stirred.
3. My heart was hot within me; while I was meditating, the fire burned. Then I spoke with my tongue:
4. “יהוה, let me know my end, and the measure of my yomim (days), what it is, let me know how short-lived I am.
5. See, You have made my yomim (days) as handbreadths, And my lifetime is as non-existence before You; Only, all men standing, are all breath. Selah.”
6. As but a shadow each one walks; they busy themselves, only in vain; He heaps up wealth, But knows not who gathers them.
7. “And now, יהוה, what do I wait for? My expectancy is in You.
8. Deliver me from all my transgressions; do not make me the reproach of the foolish.”
9. “I was dumb, I did not open my mouth, because it was You who did it.
10. Turn aside Your stroke from me; I am overcome by the blow of Your hand.”
11. “When You chastise man for crookedness with reproofs, You consume what he loves, like a moth; All men are but a breath. Selah.
12. Hear my prayer, O יהוה, and give ear to my cry; do not be silent at my tears; for I am a stranger with You, A sojourner, as all my fathers were.”
13. Look away from me, That I might brighten up, before I go away and am no more.


Tehillim (Psalms) 41


1. Blessed is he who considers the poor; יהוה does deliver him in a yom (day) of evil.
2. יהוה does guard him and keep him alive; he is blessed on the earth, and You do not hand him over To the desire of his enemies.
3. יהוה sustains him on his sickbed; in his weakness on his bed You bring a change.
4. As for me, I said, “O יהוה, show me favour; heal me, for I have sinned against You.”
5. My enemies speak evil of me, “When he dies his name shall perish.”
6. And when one comes to visit, he speaks falsely; His heart gathers wickedness to itself; He goes out, he speaks of it.
7. All who hate me whisper together against me; they plot evil to me, saying,
8. A matter of Beliya‛al is poured out on him, that when he lies down, he would not rise again.
9. Even my own friend in whom I trusted, who ate my bread, has lifted up his heel against me.
10. But You, יהוה, show me favour and raise me up, And let me repay them.
11. By this I know that You did delight in me, Because my enemy does not shout for joy over me.
12. And I, You uphold me in my integrity, and set me before Your face forever.
13. Praise be יהוה Abba of Yisra’ĕl From everlasting to everlasting! Praise Yah.


Tehillim (Psalms) 86


1. Incline Your ear, O יהוה, Answer me, for I am poor and needy.
2. Guard my being, for I am lovingly-committed; You are my Abba; Save Your servant who is trusting in You!
3. Show favour to me, O יהוה, for I cry to You all yom (day) long.
4. Bring joy to the being of Your servant, For to You, O יהוה, I lift up my being.
5. For You, יהוה, are good, and ready to forgive, And great in loving-commitment to all those who call upon You.
6. Give ear, O יהוה, to my prayer; And listen to the voice of my pleadings.
7. In the yom (day) of my distress I call upon You, for You answer me.
8. There is none like You among the mighty ones, O יהוה; And like Your works there are none.
9. Let all nations You have made Come and bow themselves before You, O יהוה, And give esteem to Your Name.
10. For You are great, and are doing wonders; You are יהוה, You alone.
11. Teach me Your way, O יהוה; Let me walk in Your truth; Unite my heart to fear Your Name.
12. I praise You, O יהוה my Abba, with all my heart, And I esteem Your Name forever.
13. For Your loving-commitment is great toward me, and You have delivered my being From the depths of She’ol.
14. O יהוה, the proud have risen against me, And a band of dreaded men have sought my life, And have not set You before them.
15. But You, O יהוה, are a compassionate Abba and showing favour, Patient and great in loving-commitment and truth
16. Turn to me, and show favour to me! Give Your strength to Your servant, And save the son of Your female servant.
17. Show me a sign for tov (good), And let those hating me see it and be ashamed, For You, יהוה, have helped me and comforted me.


Tehillim (Psalms) 89


1. I sing of the loving-commitment of יהוה forever; with my mouth I make known Your trustworthiness To all generations.
2. For I said, “Loving-commitment is built up forever; You establish Your trustworthiness in the heavens.”
3. You said, “I have made a covenant with My chosen, I have sworn to My servant Dawiḏ:
4. I establish your seed forever, And shall build up your throne to all generations.’ ” Selah.
5. And the heavens praise Your wonders, O יהוה, Your trustworthiness, too, In the assembly of the set-apart ones.
6. For who in the heavens is comparable to יהוה? Who among the sons of the mighty is like יהוה?
7. יהוה is greatly feared in the company of the set-apart ones, And awesome above all those around Him.
8. O יהוה Abba of hosts, Who is mighty like You, O Yah? And Your trustworthiness is all around You.
9. You rule the swelling of the sea; When its waves rise, You still them.
10. You have broken Rahaḇ in pieces, as one who is slain; You have scattered Your enemies With the arm of Your strength.
11. The Shamayim (heavens) are Yours, The earth also is Yours; The world and all that fills it. You have founded them.
12. North and south – You have created them; Taḇor and Ḥermon rejoice in Your Name.
13. You have a mighty arm, Your hand is strong, Your right hand exalted.
14. Righteousness and right-ruling are the foundation of Your throne; Loving-commitment and truth go before Your face.
15. Praise are the people who know the sounding! They walk, O יהוה, in the light of Your face.
16. In Your Name they rejoice all day long, and they are exalted in Your righteousness.
17. For You are the comeliness of their strength, And by Your good pleasure our horn is exalted.
18. For יהוה is our shield, and the Set-apart One of Yisra’Yah is our Sovereign.
19. Then You spoke in a vision to Your lovingly-committed one, and You said, “I have given help to one who is mighty, I have exalted one chosen from the people.
20. “I have found My servant Dawiḏ; With My set-apart oil I anointed him,
21. With whom My hand is established; My arm also strengthens him.”
22. “No enemy subjects him to tribute, and no son of wickedness afflicts him.
23. And I shall beat down His adversaries before his face, and plague those who hate him.”
24. “But My trustworthiness and My loving-commitment are with him, And in My Name his horn is exalted.
25. And I shall set his hand on the sea, And his right hand on the rivers.”
26. “He calls out to Me, ‘You are my Abba, My יהוה, and the rock of my deliverance.’
27. I also appoint him first-born, Highest of the sovereigns of the earth.”
28. “I guard My loving-commitment for him forever, And My covenant is steadfast with him.
29. And I shall establish his seed forever, and his throne as the yomim (days) of the Shamayim (heavens).”
30. “If his sons forsake My Torah and do not walk in My right-rulings,
31. If they profane My Torah (laws) And do not guard My commands,”
32. “Then I shall visit their transgression with the rod, and their crookedness with flogging.
33. But My loving-commitment I do not take away from him, Nor be false to My trustworthiness.”
34. “I shall not profane My covenant, Neither would I change what has gone out from My lips.
35. Once I have sworn by My set-apartness, I do not lie to Dawiḏ:"
36. “His seed shall be forever, and his throne as the sun before Me;
37. “Like the moon, it is established forever, and the witness in heaven is steadfast.” Selah.
38. Yet you have rejected and spurned, You have been wroth with Your anointed.
39. You have disowned the covenant of Your servant, You have defiled his diadem in the dust.
40. You have broken down all his hedges, You have brought his strongholds to ruin.
41. All who pass by the way plunder him; He is a reproach to his neighbours.
42. You have exalted the right hand of his adversaries, You have made all his enemies rejoice.
43. Moreover You have turned back the edge of his sword, And have not made him stand in battle.
44. You have brought an end to his splendour, And have hurled his throne to the ground.
45. You have shortened the days of his youth, You have covered him with shame. Selah.
46. How long, O יהוה, would You be hidden? Would Your wrath burn like fire forever?
47. Please remember how short my time is; why should you have created all the sons of men for naught?
48. What man would live and not see death? Who rescues his life from the power of She’ol? Selah.
49. יהוה where are Your former loving-commitments, Which You swore to Dawiḏ in Your trustworthiness?
50. יהוה, remember the reproach of Your servants, That I have borne in my bosom – Of all the many peoples,
51. With which Your enemies have reproached, O יהוה, With which they have reproached the footsteps of Your anointed.
52. Praise be יהוה forever! Praise His Name.


Leader: Ba-rukh a-tah Yahweh Abba me-lekh ha-o-lam,   a-sher  qid'sha-nu b'mitz'vo-tav, v'tzi-va nu shar et Te-hi-llim                            


Congregation: praise are You, Yahweh our Abba, Sovereign of the universe, who has set-apart us by His Word, and instructed us to sing Tehillim.


Yeshiya Is,58:1-’[




Prayer Ezra, 9:6-15


6. “O יהוה my Abba, I am too ashamed and wounded to lift up my face to You, my Abba, for our crookednesses have risen higher than our heads, and our guilt has grown up to the Shamayim (heavens).
7. “Since the yomim (days) of our fathers to this yom we have been very guilty, and for our crookednesses we, our sovereigns, and our priests have been given into the hand of the sovereigns of the lands, to the sword, to captivity, and to plunder, and to shame of faces, as it is this day.
8. “But now, for a short while, favour has been shown from You יהוה our Abba, to leave us a remnant to escape, and to give us a peg in Your set-apart place, that You our Abba might enlighten our eyes and give us a little reviving in our bondage.
9. “For we were slaves, but in our bondage You did not forsake us, and extended loving-commitment to us in the presence of the sovereigns, to revive us, to raise up The House of our Abba, to restore its ruins, and to give us a wall in Yahuḏah and Yarushalayim.
10. “And now, O יהוה, what do we say after this? For we have forsaken Your commands,
11. which You have commanded by Your servants the prophets, saying, ‘The land which you are going in to possess is a land unclean through the uncleanness of the peoples of the lands, by their abominations with which they have filled it, from one end to another, by their uncleanness.
12. And now, do not give your daughters as wives for their sons, nor take their daughters to your sons. And do not seek their peace or wealth ever, so that you are strong, and shall eat the good of the land, and leave it as an inheritance to your children forever.’
13. “And after all that has come upon us for our evil deeds and for our great guilt, since You יהוה have held back the rod upon our crookednesses, and have given us such deliverance as this,
14. Should we turn back, to break Your commands, and join in marriage with the people of these abominations? Would You not be enraged with us until You had consumed us, so that there would be no remnant or survivor?
15. “O יהוה Abba of Yisra’Yah, You are righteous, for we are left as a remnant, as it is this yom (day). See, we are before You, in our guilt, for there is no one to stand before You concerning this!”


Prayer Neḥemyah 1:6-11


5. “O יהוה Abba of the shamayim (heavens), O great and awesome יהוה, guarding the covenant and loving-commitment with those who love You, and with those guarding Your commands,
6. Please let Your ear be attentive and Your eyes open, to hear the prayer of Your servant which I am praying before You now, yom (day) and laylah (night), for the children of Yisra’Yah Your servants, and confess the sins of the children of Yisra’Yah which we have sinned against You. Both my father’s house and I have sinned.
7. “We have acted very corruptly against You, and have not guarded the mizvah (commands), nor the Torah (laws), nor the right-rulings which You commanded Your servant Mosheh.
8. “Please remember the word that You commanded Your servant Mosheh, saying, ‘If you trespass, I shall scatter you among the peoples,
9. But if you shall turn back to Me, and guard My commands and do them, though you were cast out to the end of the heavens, I shall gather them from there, and bring them to the place which I have chosen, to make My Name dwell there.’
10. “And they are Your servants and Your people, whom You have ransomed by Your great power, and by Your strong hand.
11. “O יהוה, I pray, please let Your ear be attentive to the prayer of Your servant, and to the prayer of Your servants who delight to fear Your Name. And let Your servant prosper this yom (day), I pray, and grant him compassion in the presence of this man.


Closing the Shabbat


Shima:


SHIMA YISRA’YAH, YAHWEH SHADDAY, YAHWEH ECHAD BARUCKH SHEM KH’VOD MAL’CHU-TO LO-LAM VA-ED 


Leader: Debarim {Deut 6:4-9}


“Hear, O Yisra’Yah: יהוה All-Mighty, יהוה is one! “And you shall love יהוה your All-Mighty with all your heart, and with all your being, and with all your might. “And these Words which I am commanding you hayom {today} shall be in your heart, And you shall impress them upon your children, and shall speak of them when you sit in your house, and when you walk by the way, and when you lie down, and when you rise up, and shall bind them as a sign on your hand, and they shall be as frontlets between your eyes.
“And you shall write them on the doorposts of your house and on your gates.


Debarim {Deut 11:13-21}


‘And it shall be that if you diligently obey My commands which I command you hayom {today}, to love יהוה your Ab-ba and to serve Him with all your heart and with all your being, Then I shall give you the rain for your land in its season, the early rain and the latter rain, and you shall gather in your grain, and your new wine, and your oil. ‘And I shall give grass in your fields for your livestock, and you shall eat and be satisfied. ‘Guard yourselves, lest your heart be deceived, and you turn aside and serve other mighty ones and bow down to them. ‘Then the displeasure of יהוה shall burn against you, and He shall shut up the shamayim {heaven}, and there be no rain, and the lands not give its increase. And you shall perish quickly from the tov {good} land which יהוה is giving you. ‘And you shall lay up these words of Mine in your heart and in your being, and shall bind them as a sign on your hand, and they shall be as frontlets between your eyes. ‘And you shall teach them to your children, speaking of them when you sit in your house, and when you walk by the way, and when you lie down, and when you rise up. And shall write them on the doorposts of your house and on your gates, So that your Chai {life} and the Chai {life} of your children are increased on the soil of which יהוה swore to your fathers to give them, as the yomim {days} of the shamayim {heavens} on the erets {earth}.


Bemidbar {Num 15:37-41}


And יהוה spoke to Mosheh, {Moses} saying,
“Speak to the children of Yisra’Yah, and you shall say to them to make tzitzit (fringes) on the corners of their garments throughout their generations, and to put a blue cord in the tzitzit of the corners. “And it shall be to you for a tzitzit, and you shall see it, and shall remember all the commands of יהוה and shall do them, and not search after your own heart and your own eyes after which you went whoring, So that you remember, and shall do all My commands, and be set-apart unto your Ab-ba. “I am יהוה Your Ab-ba, who brought you out of the land of Mitsrayim {Egypt}, to be your Ab-ba. I am יהוה Your Ab-ba.”


Closing Prayer: (Prayer for help against sin)


Leader: Yahweh to You be all Honor and Esteem. I beg that a guard could be placed at my mouth, that my lips could be wisely sealed. It would keep me from making mistakes and prevent me from destroying myself with my own tongue! 


Congregation: O Yahweh my Ab-ba and Master of my life, do not leave me at the pity of my own words; don’t let them cause my downfall. I wish I could be whipped for my thoughts, so that wisdom could discipline my mind. I would not want to be spared when I am wrong; I would not want a single sin to be overlooked! Then I would not keep on sinning, making one mistake after another.  I could not fall to my enemies and be humiliated by them. 


Leader: O Yahweh, my Ab-ba, Master of my life, keep me from being arrogant; protect me from evil desires. Keep me from being overcome by greed or lust! Do not leave me at the pity of these shameless passions that I may bring honor and esteem to Your name.   


Tehillim (Psalm: 121) recite together


1. I lift up my eyes to the hills; Where does my help come from?
2. My help comes from יהוה, Maker of the shamayim {heavens} and erets {earth}.
3. He does not allow my foot to be moved; He who watches over me does not slumber.
4. See, He who is guarding Yisra’Yah neither slumbers nor sleeps.
5. יהוה is my guard; יהוה is my shade at my right hand.
6. The sun does not strike me by yom {by day}, nor the moon by Laylah (by night).
7. יהוה guards me from all evil; He guards my being.
8. יהוה guards my going out and my coming in now and forever.


HAVDALAH RITUAL (the end of Shabbat)                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      


Congregation: Yahweh is my teshuvah {deliverance}, I trust and have no fear; Yahweh is my strength and my song, and has become my Yesha.                                                                                                                            


Leader: Yahweh will give strength to his people, Yahweh will barak his children with Shalom {Peace}. Shalom to him who is a far off, and to him who is near, says Yahweh.                                                                                                                                                             
Congregation: I will exalt the Torah; I will call upon the name of Yahweh.


Leader: Ba-rukh a- tah Yahweh Ab-ba me-lekh ha-o-lam, bo-rei p’ri ha-ga-fen.


Congregation: praise are You, Yahweh our Father, Sovereign of the universe, who created the fruit of the vine. 


Leader: Ba-rukh a-tah Yahweh Ab-ba me-lekh ha-o-lam, bo-rei mi-nei ve sa-mim.


Congregation: praise are You, Yahweh our Father, Sovereign of the universe, who created various spices.


Leader: Ba-rukh a-tah Yahweh Ab-ba me-lekh ha-o-lam, bo-rei mo-rei ha-eish.


Congregation: praise are You, Yahweh our Father, Sovereign of the universe, who created the illumination of the fire.


Leader: Ba-rukh a-tah Yahweh Ab-ba me-lekh ha-o-lam palah ba-yin qadosh chol bay-in or cha-shek ba-yin   yom-shabat  yom-vav a-mal ezer “us” anach-nu palah ba-yin e-meth a-mad he-bel shav agab che-sed to-qeph na-cha-lah tub sha-bu-a amets emun sha-bu-a arukah shalu sha-bu-a bera-kah shalom.  


Congregation: praise are You, Yahweh our Father, Sovereign of the universe, who separated between the sacred and the profane, between light and darkness, between the seventh yom and the six yomim of labor. Help us too, we pray to distinguish between that which is real and enduring, and that which is fleeting and vain.  May we value affection and helpfulness more than power and possessions, that the simchah of a tov (good) week, a week of courage and commitment, a week of health and prosperity, a week of berakah and Shalom {peace}. Hallelu’Yah!


Yahweh Berakah {Blessing} Leader: Yahweh spoke to Mosheh saying speak to Aaron saying speak to the children of Yisra’Yah and this is what you shall say to them.


Yish-va-re-ch’cha Yahweh va’yish’ma’re-cha.Ya-eir Yahweh pa-nav ei-le-cha vi-chu-ne-cha.
Yis-sa Yahweh pa-nav ei-le-cha v’ya-seim lecha shalom.


Congregation: Yahweh barak {bless} you and keep you; Yahweh make His face shine upon you and be tov {good} to you; Yahweh lifts up His countenance upon you and give you Shalom {Peace}.
FEAST OF TABERNACLE SUKKOT SERVICE
Shalom my brothers and sisters!


Welcome to the Hikal (Temple) of יהוה and Sukkot Celebration.


In Wayyiqra (Leviticus) 23


33. And יהוה spoke to Mosheh, saying,
34. Speak to the children of Yisra’Yah, saying, ‘On the fifteenth yom {day} of this seventh new month is the Festival of Sukkot for seven yomim (days) to יהוה.
35. ‘On the first yom is a set-apart gathering, you do no servile work.
36. ‘For seven yomim {days} you bring an offering made by fire to יהוה. On the eighth yom there shall be a set-apart gathering for you, and you shall bring an offering made by fire to יהוה. It is a closing festival, you do no servile work.
37. ‘These are the appointed times of יהוה which you proclaim as set-apart gatherings, to bring an offering made by fire to יהוה, an ascending offering and a grain offering, a slaughtering and drink offerings, as commanded for every yom –
38. besides the Shabbaths of יהוה, and besides your gifts, and besides all your vows, and besides all your voluntary offerings which you give to יהוה.
39. ‘On the fifteenth yom of the seventh new month, when you gather in the fruit of the land, celebrate the festival of יהוה for seven yomim. On the first yom is a rest, and on the eighth yom a rest.
40. ‘And you shall take for yourselves on the first yom the fruit of tov trees, branches of palm trees, twigs of leafy trees, and willows of the stream, and shall rejoice before יהוה your ab-ba for seven yomim.
41. ‘And you shall celebrate it as a festival to יהוה for seven yomim in the year – a law forever in your generations. Celebrate it in the seventh new month.
42. ‘Dwell in booths for seven yomim; all who are native born in Yisra’Yah dwell in booths,
43. so that your generations know that I made the children of Yisra’Yah dwell in booths when I brought them out of the land of Mitsrayim. I am יהוה your ab-ba.’ ”
44. Thus did Mosheh speak of the appointed times of יהוה to the children of Yisra’Yah.


General Information: Sukkot {tabernacles}


Sukkot is the seven-yom {day} festival when observant Yisra’lites and Jews dwell in asukkah—an outdoor hut of temporary construction with a roof of branches—most notably, eating all of our meals there. This is to commemorate Yahweh’s kindness in shielding our ancestors in the Sinai desert. Hayom (Today) we are here to celebrate this custom as the Yisra’lites and Yahudim (Jews) did let us put our hands together as we give Yahweh Most High, thanks for this occasion.
National Anthem of Yah’maica (Jamaica)
National Anthem of Yisra’Yah (Israel) 


The Shima:  


SHIMA YISRA’YAH, YAHWEH SHADDAY, YAHWEH ECHAD BARUCKH SHEM KH’VOD MAL’CHU-TO LO-LAM VA-ED 


Leader: Debarim {Deut 6:4-9}


“Hear, O Yisra’Yah: יהוה All-Mighty, יהוה is one!
“And you shall love יהוה your All-Mighty with all your heart, and with all your being, and with all your might.
“And these Words which I am commanding you hayom {today} shall be in your heart,
And you shall impress them upon your children, and shall speak of them when you sit in your house, and when you walk by the way, and when you lie down, and when you rise up, and shall bind them as a sign on your hand, and they shall be as frontlets between your eyes.
“And you shall write them on the doorposts of your house and on your gates.
Debarim {Deut 11:13-21}
‘And it shall be that if you diligently obey My commands which I command you hayom {today}, to love יהוה your Ab-ba and to serve Him with all your heart and with all your being,
Then I shall give you the rain for your land in its season, the early rain and the latter rain, and you shall gather in your grain, and your new wine, and your oil.
‘And I shall give grass in your fields for your livestock, and you shall eat and be satisfied.
‘Guard yourselves, lest your heart be deceived, and you turn aside and serve other mighty ones and bow down to them.
‘Then the displeasure of יהוה shall burn against you, and He shall shut up the shamayim {heaven}, and there be no rain, and the lands not give its increase. And you shall perish quickly from the tov {good} land which יהוה is giving you.
‘And you shall lay up these words of Mine in your heart and in your being, and shall bind them as a sign on your hand, and they shall be as frontlets between your eyes.
‘And you shall teach them to your children, speaking of them when you sit in your house, and when you walk by the way, and when you lie down, and when you rise up.
And shall write them on the doorposts of your house and on your gates,
So that your Chai {life} and the Chai {life} of your children are increased on the soil of which יהוה swore to your fathers to give them, as the yomim {days} of the shamayim {heavens} on the erets {earth}.
Bemidbar {Num 15:37-41}
And יהוה spoke to Mosheh, {Moses} saying,
“Speak to the children of Yisra’Yah, and you shall say to them to make tzitzit (fringes) on the corners of their garments throughout their generations, and to put a blue cord in the tzitzit of the corners.
“And it shall be to you for a tzitzit, and you shall see it, and shall remember all the commands of יהוה                 and shall do them, and not search after your own heart and your own eyes after which you went whoring,
So that you remember, and shall do all My commands, and be set-apart unto your Ab-ba.
“I am יהוה Your Ab-ba, who brought you out of the land of Mitsrayim, to be your Ab-ba.                                                                                                                                I am יהוה Your Ab-ba.”
Opening Berakah (Blessing)


Leader: BAR’CHU-ET YAHWEH HAME VORACH                                                                                        BARUCH YAHWEH SHADDAY HAME VORACH LEG-NO-LAM VAED


Congregation: praise are You, Yahweh All-mighty King of the universe, Who                                                                               Form light and creates darkness, Who make peace and creates all thing.


Opening Prayer


Leader: All shall thank thee and all shall praise Thee, and all shall declare that there is none seta-part like Thee, All shall extol Thee forever, O Yahweh Who form all thing. O Yahweh All-mighty, Who open every yom (day) the doors of the gates of the East, and cleaves the windows of the firmament, bringing forth the sun from its palace and the moon from the place of its dwelling, and giving light to the whole world and its inhabitants whom Thou didst create by Thy attribute of pardon. In pardon Thou illuminates the earth and those who dwell thereon, and in Thy excellent every yom constantly re-newest the work of creation. “How great are Thy work, O Yahweh All-Mighty; in wisdom hast Thou made them all: the earth is full of Thy possessions.” O King, Who alone was exalted from aforetime; praised and extolled from yomim of old. O everlasting  All-Mighty Yahweh, in Thy abundant pardon have compassion on us. O Yahweh  Most High of our strength, Rock of our fortress, Shield of our salvation, be Thou a defence for us. There is none to be compared with Thee; nor is there anyone beside Thee; there is none but Thee; and who is like unto Thee? There is none to be compared with Thee, O Yahweh All-Mighty, in this world; nor is there anyone beside Thee, O our King, in the world to come. There is no other save Thee, O our Redeemer, in the yomim of the Mashiyach; and who will be like unto Thee, O our Saviour, at the resurrection of the dead?


Congregation: Yahweh is All-Mighty of all works; barak is He and ever to be barak by the mouth of every soul. His greatness and excellence fill the universe. Knowledge and understanding surround Him; He exalteth Himself above the seta-part ones and is adorned in splendor above the celestial chariot. Purity and rectitude are before His throne, loving-commitment before His splendor. Excellent are the luminaries which Yahweh our All-Mighty hath created; He formed them with knowledge, understanding and discernment; He gave them power and might to rule in the world. They are full of brilliance, and they radiate brightness; beautiful is their brilliance throughout all the world. They rejoice in their going forth, and are glad in their returning. With reverential fear they perform the will of their creator. They ascribe honor and majesty to His Name, simchah (joy) and song to the commemoration of His kingdom. He called unto the sun and it rose in resplendent light; He looked, and ordained the figure of the moon. Praise is given unto Him by the whole heavenly host; splendour and majesty by the Seraphim, Ophanim and the 
Chayoth ha-Qodesh.


Praise Song 


Barak and singing of Tehillim:


Leader: Ba-rukh a-tah Yahweh shadday   me-lekh ha-o-lam,   a-sher  qid'sha-nu b'mitz'vo-tav, v'tzi-va nu shar et Te-hi-llim
                            
Congregation: praise are You, Yahweh All-mighty, King of the universe, who has set-apart us by His Word, and instructed us to sing Tehillim.
 The Tehillims
(We read alternately)
(1 )Tehillim 150  
1Praise Yah! Praise the All-mighty in His set-apart place; Praise Him in His mighty expanse!
2Praise Him for His mighty acts; Praise Him according to His excellent greatness!
3Praise Him with the blowing of the ram’s horn; Praise Him with the harp and lyre!
4Praise Him with tambourine and dance; Praise Him with stringed instruments and flutes!
5Praise Him with sounding cymbals; Praise Him with resounding cymbals!
6Let all that have breath praise Yah. Praise Yah!
(2) Tehillim 97
1Yahweh shall reign. The earth rejoices. Many isles are glad!
2Clouds and darkness all around Him, Righteousness and right-ruling are the foundation of His throne.
3Fire goes before Him, And burns up His adversaries round about.
4His lightnings shall light the world, The earth shall see and tremble.
5The mountains shall melt like wax before the face of Yahweh Before the face of the Master of all the earth.
6The heavens shall declare His righteousness, And all the peoples shall see His esteem.
7All are put to shame who serve carved images, Those boasting of matters of naught. Bow yourselves to Him, all you mighty ones.
8Tsiyon shall hear and be glad, And the daughters of Yahuḏah rejoice Because of Your right-rulings, O Yahweh.
9For You, Yahweh are the Most High over all the earth, You shall be greatly exalted, over all mighty ones.
10You who love Yahweh hate evil! He guards the lives of His kind ones, He delivers them out of the hand of the wrong.
11Light is sown for the righteous, And gladness for the upright in heart.
12Rejoice in Yahweh you righteous, And give thanks at the remembrance of His Set-apartness.
(3) Tehillim 98
1Sing to Yahweh a new song! For He has done wonders; His right hand and His set-apart arm Have brought Him deliverance.
2Yahweh has made known His deliverance; His righteousness He has openly shown Before the eyes of the nations.
3He has remembered His kindness And His trustworthiness to the house of Yisra’yah; All the ends of the earth have seen The deliverance of our Abba.
4Raise a shout to Yahweh all the earth; Break forth in song, rejoice, and sing praises.
5Sing to Yahweh with the lyre, With the lyre and the voice of a song,
6With trumpets and the sound of a horn; Raise a shout before Yahweh the Sovereign.
7Let the sea roar, and all that fills it, the world and those who dwell in it.
8Let the rivers clap their hands, Let the mountains sing together for joy before Yahweh
9For He shall come to judge the earth. He judges the world in righteousness, and the people in straightness.
(4) Tehillim 99
1Yahweh shall reign; Peoples tremble! He is enthroned on the keruḇim; the earth shakes!
2Yahweh is great in Tsiyon, And He is high above all the peoples.
3They praise Your Name, great and awesome, It is set-apart.
4And the strength of the Sovereign Shall love right-ruling; You Yourself shall establish straightness; You shall execute right-ruling And righteousness in Ya‛aqoḇ.
5Exalt Yahweh our Abba, And bow yourselves at His footstool, He is set-apart.
6Mosheh and Aharon were among His priests, And Shemu’yah was among those calling upon His Name. They called upon Yahweh and He answered them.
7He spoke to them in the column of cloud; they guarded His witnesses and the Torah He gave them.
8You answered them, O Yahweh our Abba. You were a forgiving Abba to them, Though You took vengeance on their deeds.
9Exalt Yahweh our Abba, And bow down towards His set-apart mountain; For Yahweh our Abba is set-apart.
(5) Tehillim 100
1Raise a shout for Yahweh All the earth!
2Serve Yahweh with gladness; Come before His presence with singing.
3Know that Yahweh He is Almighty; He has made us, and we are His – His people and the sheep of His pasture.
4Enter into His gates with thanksgiving, And into His courts with praise. Give thanks to Him; barak His Name.
5For Yahweh is tov; His kindness is everlasting, And His truth, to all generations.
(6) Tehillim 101
1I sing of kindness and right-ruling; To You, O Yahweh I sing praises.
2I act wisely in a perfect way. When do You come to me? I walk in the midst of my house with a perfect heart.
3I set no matter of Beliya‛al before my eyes; I hate the work of those who fall away; It does not cleave to me.
4A perverse heart turns away from me; I do not know evil.
5Him who secretly slanders his neighbour I cut off; I do not tolerate one who has a haughty look and a proud heart.
6My eyes are on the trustworthy of the land, To dwell with me; He who walks in a perfect way, He serves me.
7He who practises deceit Does not dwell in my house; He who speaks lies Does not stand in my presence.
8Each morning I uproot all the wrong of the land, To cut off all the workers of wickedness From the city of Yahweh.
(7) Tehillim 121
1I lift up my eyes to the hills; Where does my help come from?
2My help comes from Yahweh Maker of the heavens and earth.
3He does not allow your foot to be moved; He who watches over you does not slumber.
4See, He who is guarding Yisra’yah  Neither slumbers nor sleeps.
5Yahweh is your guard; Yahweh is your shade at your right hand.
6The sun does not strike you by yom, Nor the moon by night.
7Yahweh guards you from all evil; He guards your being.
8Yahweh guards your going out and your coming in Now and forever.
Leader: Ba-rukh a-tah Yahweh shadday   me-lekh ha-o-lam,   a-sher  qid'sha-nu b'mitz'vo-tav, v'tzi-va nu shar et Te-hi-llim                            
Congregation: praise are You, Yahweh All-mighty, King of the universe, who has set-apart us by His Word, and instructed us to sing Tehillim.
Songs:
 By
Prayer of Thanksgiving


Leader: On this yom (day) we call with grateful hearts to You The Mighty Yahweh which guided our fathers in their wanderings through the barren desert and the trackless wilderness. Under Your protection the weary pilgrims found shelter and security. In famine You sustained them and from the flinty rock You quenched their thirst.
We thank You that the same unfailing compassion have guided and sheltered us, their children, in all the years of our pilgrimage. Our hearts are filled with gratitude at the remembrance of Your excellence. We pray Thee that the enjoyment of Your berakah {blessing} may awaken within us a rua’ch of contentment and courage, that we may neither grow proud through success nor become embittered by failure. May we sympathize with those whose hopes have been disappointed and whose labors have been unfruitful. May our hands be outstretched to those who suffer, and our hearts be opened to those who are in need. Praised be You, O Yahweh giver of all excellence. 


Allelu’Yah


Leader to the congregation – Repeat Save us now! O save us.


For Thy sake, O Yahweh  All-Mighty!
For Thy sake, O our Creator!
For Thy sake, O our Redeemer!
For Thy sake, O thou who will seek for us!
For Thy sake, who art most mighty!
For Thy sake, who creates the wind, and form the mountains!
For Thy sake, who art great in counsel; who cast down, and exalt!   
For Thy sake, who speak righteousness and declares rectitude!
For Thy sake, who know and art witness, although a man should hide himself in the most secret place
For Thy sake, who art one in mind, and whom no one can turn from his purpose with words!
For Thy sake, who art pure and clear to the pure!
For Thy sake, who search every hidden thing, and investigates all privacies!
For Thy sake, O thou whose right hand hath spanned the shamayim, and who hast formed the luminaries!
For Thy sake, who found the earth, and split the rocks into rivers!
For Thy sake, who art mighty in power, and beautified with Urim!
For Thy sake, O thou, whose year have no end from generation to generation!


Leader and congregation – Save us now! O save us.


Leader:  We call unto You Who Is the only Yahweh and Whose Name is One; Who Is one, and Who can dissent from Thee! Who called the shamayims and arets (earth) and they stood forth at once. Save us on the first Yom of the festival.
We beseech Thee, remember father Avraham, who inherited the land and who was first to worship Thee. He prepared for the rebellious, ones heart and one path, to call upon Your name  O Yahweh Most High and to serve You with one accord.


Leader and Congregation: O Thou, who art the same eternally, save us, we beseech Thee.


Torah Lesson:  Debarim 31:10-30


10. And Mosheh commanded them, saying, “At the end of seven years, at the appointed time, the year of release, at the Festival of Sukkot, 
11when BBC BBC C all Yisra’Yah comes to appear before יהוה your Ab-ba in the place which He chooses, read this Torah before all Yisra’Yah in their hearing.
12“Assemble the people, the men and the women and the little ones, and your sojourner who is within your gates, so that they hear, and so that they learn to fear יהוה your Ab-ba and guard to do all the Words of this Torah.
13“And their children, who have not known it, should hear and learn to fear יהוה your Ab-ba as long as you live in the land you are passing over the Yardĕn to possess.”
14And יהוה said to Mosheh, “See, the yomim have drawn near for you to die. Call Yahoshua, and present yourselves in the Tent of Appointment, so that I command him.” And Mosheh and Yahoshua went and presented themselves in the Tent of Appointment.
15And יהוה appeared at the Tent in a column of a cloud, and the column of a cloud stood above the door of the Tent.
16And יהוה said to Mosheh, “See, you are about to sleep with your fathers. And this people shall rise and whore after the mighty ones of the strangers of the land into the midst of which they shall enter, and forsake Me and break My berith {covenant} which I have made with them.
17“Then My displeasure shall burn against them in that yom, and I shall forsake them and hide My face from them, and they shall be consumed. And many evils and distresses shall come upon them, and it shall be said in that yom, ‘Is it not because our Ab-ba is not in our midst that these evils have come upon us?’
18“And I shall certainly hide My face in that day, because of all the evil which they have done, for they shall turn to other mighty ones.
19“And now write down this song for yourselves, and teach it to the children of Yisra’Yah. Put it in their mouths, so that this song is to Me for a witness against the children of Yisra’Yah.
20“And I shall bring them to the land flowing with milk and honey, of which I swore to their fathers, and they shall eat and be satisfied and be fat, then they shall turn to other mighty ones, and they shall serve them, and scorn Me and break My berith {covenant}.
21And it shall be, when many evils and distresses come upon them, that this song shall answer before them as a witness. For it is not to be forgotten in the mouths of their seed, for I know their thoughts which they are forming hayom, even before I bring them to the land of which I swore to give them.
22And Mosheh wrote this song the same yom, and taught it to the children of Yisra’Yah.
23And He commanded Yahoshua son of Nun, and said, “Be strong and courageous, for you are to bring the children of Yisra’Yah into the land of which I swore to them, and I Myself am with you.”
24And it came to be, when Mosheh had completed writing the Words of this Torah in a book, until their completion,
25that Mosheh commanded the Lĕwites, who bore the ark of the covenant of יהוה, saying,
26“Take this Book of the Torah, and you shall place it beside the ark of the covenant of יהוה your Ab-ba, and it shall be there as a witness against you,
27for I myself know your rebellion and your stiff neck. See, while I am still alive with you hayom, you have been rebellious against יהוה, then how much more after my death?
28“Assemble unto me all the elders of your tribes, and your officers, so that I speak these words in their hearing and call the shamayim {heavens} and the earth to witness against them.
29For I know that after my death you shall do very corruptly and turn aside from the way which I have commanded you. And evil shall come to you in the latter yomim, because you do what is evil in the eyes of יהוה, to provoke Him through the work of your hands.
30So Mosheh spoke in the hearing of all the assembly of Yisra’Yah the words of this song till their completion:


SHEMINI ATZERET FIRST PRAYER
The Last Day of Sukkot
Leader: Almighty Yahweh, who led our fathers through the wilderness and brought them to the Promised Land, we give thanks unto you for your providential care. From old and to this day, you caused our fathers to dwell within the shelter in peace and guided them with a pillar of cloud by day and a pillar of fire by night. You led them from darkness to the light of your worship. As you poured out upon them the gifts of your bounty. We bestowed upon them the blessing of your law that they would seek after truth and strive to do justice, to love mercy and to walk humbly with you. 


We beseech you to teach us also to emulate your own grace and mercy. You give us our food in due season, may we learn to share with the needy and to shelter the stranger. May your truth be engraved upon our hearts.


Congregation: Send unto us each year a deeper understanding of your word. Cause your truth to fall upon our hearts like seed upon fertile ground. It again and again may the faith of the patriarchs, the vision of the lawgivers and the fervour of the prophets be renewed within us. Grant, oh father, that we may learn to love your law ever more deeply, and to find it in the beauty of set-apartness. Make this a day of sacred joy unto us, so that from our hearts and from the hearts of all men may rise the song: This is the day which Yahweh had made. Let us be glad and rejoice in it. Hallelujah!


SHEMINI ATZERET SECOND PRAYER


Leader: Into your gates, oh father and king. We enter with Thanksgiving and into your courts with praise. We bless your name, for you are from everlasting to everlasting. Out of chaos, you called the world into being and set upon it the seal of your law. You endowed creation with purpose and beauty. You kindled your light, that we might rejoice in the beauty of your world and the majesty of your ways.


Congregation: On this day, oh Father, we conclude the set-apart season in reverence and joy. The mighty accents of the shofar, calling us to repentance and to atonement, have stirred our hearts. From the world to you for your within, we turned to the world without and lift grateful hearts to you for your unfailing bounty, for the harvest of fruit and grain with which you blessed us. Continue to bestow your benediction upon us and teach us to seek you ever more within the sanctuary of our souls, within the tabernacle of your world, and in the congregation of your worshippers, Hallelu’Yah!